LITTLE MENWritten by

                  Ira Sachs & Mauricio Zacharias






                                    SHOOTING SCRIPT: July 27, 20151   INT. UPPER WEST SIDE SCHOOL/CLASSROOM - DAY                   1Loud conversation, laughter, singing, and even dancing: the
    teacher is missing in a 7th Grade classroom. This rare
    absence of authority is intensely enjoyed by the crowd. It
    looks like it's party time for these KIDS.

    They talk and laugh, show each other photos on their phones,
    draw spaceships and baboons on their notebooks, and fold
    pieces of paper into airplanes that fly around the room.

    In a corner, a GROUP OF GIRLS dance to the tune of a song
    they are listening to on headphones.

    On the other side of the room, TWO BOYS play like in a sword
    fight, without swords.

    Suddenly, someone turns out the lights. There's random
    shouting and laughter.

    An overhead projector is turned on, and a couple of the kids
    start to make puppet figures that are seen on the white
    screen.

    A door opens, and a voice is heard, grave and authoritative.MR. PLUMMER (O.S.)What is going on here?!

    The kids scramble back to their seats as the lights go on.
    MR. PLUMMER, the teacher, has come in.MR. PLUMMERWhat is this mess?? Didn't you
              promise me to be quiet? Can't I
              even leave you alone for five
              minutes?? Lionel, sit down. Sit
              down, I said! Melissa, put your
              phone away. Put it away right now!
              I asked you to be quiet, and...
              look at you. What a disappointment.

    Mr. Plummer wanders around the classroom, inspecting
    everyone. Each kid has a different reaction. Some are
    frightened, others think it's funny. Some are respectful, and
    some others, defiant.

    The teacher stops by a desk that's covered by a VERY COLORFUL
    DRAWING, while the STUDENT rushes to put away his large
    collection of Caran d'Ache pencils neatly in the box.MR. PLUMMER (CONT'D)Jacob, what is this?
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15               2.


JACOB "JAKE" JARDINE is pale and slender, with straight black
hair, a bit longer than the other kids, and deep brown eyes -
pretty in a delicate way, and shy, different from the other
tougher boys in the class.JAKEIt's the sky, Mr. Plummer.

Mr. Plummer picks up his drawing and shows it to the class.MR. PLUMMERA green sky with yellow stars??JAKE(barely audible)
          It's Camp Jupiter's sky.MR. PLUMMERWatch out, Jacob: Vincent van Gogh
          ended up cutting off his own ear.

Some of the boys have a ball with this. Girls cover their
mouths not to laugh out loud. Jake blushes, his eyes fill up
with quiet, angry tears; he wasn't even talking to anyone,
he was just drawing, doing his thing. Life is so unfair.MR. PLUMMERQuiet!! I said quiet, everybody!
          This is not a playroom. It's not an
          art studio. Much less a disco, Ms.
          Neves. It's a classroom. It is my
          classroom, and I asked you to be
          quiet. A simple request, and you
          showed me you don't know how to
          behave yourselves. Was I talking to
          the walls? Amanda, please collect
          everybody's homework, and bring
          them to me.

AMANDA, the teacher's favorite, promptly goes around the
class collecting homework. The individual students now listen
intently to Mr. Plummer's speech. But there are exceptions;
one or two still defy his authority, swallowing a laughter
that cannot contain itself.MR. PLUMMER (O.S.)If I had to leave the class, it is
          because I had something very
          important to do. I come back, and I
          see you screaming and dancing!
          There's a saying, it's an old
          saying, that says: "Silence is
          golden." Write this down, children."(MORE)Shooting Script 07/27/15                  3.MR. PLUMMER (O.S.) (CONT'D)Silence is golden but my eyes still
              see. Talking is cheap, people
              follow like sheep."

    Mr. Plummer writes this up on the board. Jake, instead of
    writing, furiously draws a wild dancing cobra on his
    notebook.MR. PLUMMERWhat does this mean?

    Amanda raises her hand, ready to give an answer.MR. PLUMMERNot now, Amanda. I want you all to
              write down your thoughts on this:
              "silence is golden."

    He underlines "silence is golden" on the board.MR. PLUMMER (CONT'D)Every child is to write an essay on
              its meaning. Two pages minimum.
              That's your homework for tomorrow.
              Don't even come to the class if you
              haven't done it! Now, let's open
              our books. Page 23. Lionel, start
              reading from the top. Stand up,
              please. Stand up so we can all hear
              you.2   EXT. UPPER WEST SIDE SCHOOL - DAY                                2Large groups of KIDS are coming out through the main gate of
    the school. PILAR, a Filipino woman in her 50's, waits
    outside looking attentively at every kid who walks out. She
    sees the one she's looking for.

    In the middle of different groups and cliques, Jake comes
    walking alone.PILARJake! Jake! Hey, Jake! Here!

    Jake sees her, then runs and gives her a big hug, longer than
    expected.PILARHey hey hey. Look at you.

    She ruffles his hair lovingly.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15               4.JAKEWhat happened?PILARYour parents are going to be coming
               home very late tonight. Come on.
               Let's go.

     They begin to walk together away from the school.JAKEI'm thirsty.PILARWe can stop by Papaya King on the
               way home.JAKEYes!2A   EXT. UPPER WEST SIDE STREET - DAY                         2AJake and Pilar are walking. Jake now has a drink from Papaya
     King in his hand.PILARListen, Jake. It's your
               grandfather Max. There have been
               some... developments.JAKESome what?PILARI mean, he got sick, and had to go
               to the hospital.JAKESick with what?PILARI'm sure your parents will talk to
               you when they get home. But I'm
               going to make dinner for you. What
               do you want?

     He thinks for a moment.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15               5.JAKEI don't know.
                   (pause)
               What happened to Grandpa Max?PILARWhen you're old, things happen,
               Jake. C'mon, let's make the light.
               We need to get to the grocery.

     They cross the street and continue on.2B   INT. UPPER WEST SIDE APARTMENT/JAKE'S ROOM - DAY          2BJake is at his desk working on a drawing.3    INT. UPPER WEST SIDE APARTMENT/KITCHEN & LIVING ROOM - DAY 3A comfortable, but cramped, NYC apartment.

     In the kitchen, Pilar is preparing a steaming pot of
     caldereta, Filipino beef stew.

     A phone starts ringing, and Jake storms out of his bedroom.PILARHey! Did you finish your homework?

     Jake grabs the phone.JAKEJardine residence, good evening.

     We hear the voice on the other end of the line.STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)(over the phone)
               Good evening. And who am I talking
               to?JAKEWho is this?STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)(over the phone)
               This is Stu Gershman, I'm an old
               friend of Max Jardine's. Is this
               Jacob?JAKEYes.
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15             6.STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)(over the phone)
          Oh Jacob, last time I saw you, you
          were a little baby. I guess you're
          all grown up now.JAKEUmm...STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)(over the phone)
          Is your dad at home? Your mom?JAKENo, they're not home yet.STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)(over the phone)
          Oh well. I'm calling because... I'm
          very sorry to hear about your
          grandfather, Jacob. Max and I knew
          each other for so long, we met when
          we were about your age. You must be
          - what, ten now?JAKETwelve.STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)He was such a dear old friend of
          mine, your granddaddy was. Do you
          know when the service is going to
          be?JAKEWhat service?STU GERSHMAN (O.S.)(over the phone)
          The funeral. I imagine there's
          going to be a service soon?

Jake pauses to take this in - he has just learned that his
grandfather has died.JAKEHold on a second.

He goes to the kitchen and gives the phone to Pilar.PILARWho is it?
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              7.JAKEI don't know.4   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - DAY                         4LEONOR CALVELLI rolls down the metal shutters of a Brooklyn
    storefront. A sign above reads "CASA DE MODA". It's the
    ground floor commercial space of a two-story row house on a
    commercial street in Brooklyn. She pushes down the last bit
    of the gate with her foot to lock it up. You can still go in
    and out through a door space that's open. She lights up a
    cigarette and leans on the gate, calmly surveying the street -
    a daily routine.

    Leonor is in her early 50's, dark hair and dark eyes, her
    beauty toughened up by a hard life. After a few puffs, she
    hears a car parking in front, doors open and close. Leonor
    recognizes someone, and throws her cigarette out. She opens
    the door, and calls inside the store.LEONORAntonio! Antonio!TONY (O.S.)What?!LEONORCome! Come here!*

    *- Throughout the film, italics will indicate when Leonor,
    Tony and others speak Spanish.

    She forces a smile, greeting the still unknown visitor, then
    she turns to inside and calls again, impatiently.LEONORAntonio!!5   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - DAY                         5Across the street from Leonor, Jake is helping his parents
    BRIAN and KATHY JARDINE get plates of food wrapped in
    cellophane and other catering goods from out of the car. The
    couple, dressed in formal dark clothes, have the youthful
    look of people who can afford to take a nice vacation once a
    year.

    Jake sees when ANTONIO "TONY" CALVELLI, a handsome 13 year
    old boy with dark hair and eyes, comes running out from
    inside the store, and stops next to Leonor.
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15               8.LEONORWhat were you doing?? If I say
          `come here', you have to come. Give
          them a hand. Go.

But Tony doesn't move, unsure of what to do. He looks at
Jake, who is looking at him.

Brian drops a plate in Jake's hands and goes towards Leonor,
with an extended hand.BRIANHello Mrs. Calvelli. Brian Jardine,
          we've met.LEONOROf course, Brian. I'm so sad for
          what has happened. I'm so sorry.

Jake sees when Leonor, suddenly overtaken by emotion, grabs
his father's hand and pulls him closer for a hug, which makes
Brian visibly uncomfortable. Leonor tries to hide her tears.LEONORI'm sorry. Your father was a such a
          wonderful man.BRIANThank you.LEONORHe really was, you know.BRIANI know.LEONORThis is my son Antonio.

Kathy approaches, carrying a plate of food.BRIANI don't think you've met my wife
          Kathy.LEONORHi. Nice to meet you. Leonor.

Kathy smiles warmly, as Brian opens the door to the house.KATHYSo nice to meet you too. Sorry, my
          hands are full.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15               9.BRIANWe're having a little reception
          upstairs. Just family and a few
          friends.LEONOROf course.

Brian and Kathy go upstairs with their bags.

Left alone by the car, Jake tries to grab a sketchbook from
inside as he balances the big plate of food with his other
hand and then, a bit clumsy, ends up dropping the bag.

Tony is suddenly there to help him out. He kneels down to
pick up pages with drawings, pencils and stuff spilling out
of the bag, immediately recognizing the first drawing he sees
- a girl with red wings flying through a thundercloud.TONYElla the Harpy!JAKECan you hand that to me?TONYShe's a nerd, but I have a thing
          for redheads... Don't you?JAKEHere, pass me that. I can carry it.

In the distance, Leonor watches, while Tony helps by pulling
another set of plates and bottles out of the car, organizing
a crate to be carried off.TONYTyson is such a douchebag.JAKENot in the end, he's not. I just
          finished The Blood of Olympus.TONYI have the game, wanna play?JAKENow? I'd like to, but... I can't.
          It's my grandfather's--TONYI know. I never know what to say in
          these situations.
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15            10.JAKEI think you're supposed to say,
          "I'm sorry for your loss."TONYThat's right! I'm sorry for your
          loss.JAKEOh, that's okay.

Tony finds one last drawing that was left on the floor in the
car.TONYWait a minute: what's this one
          here?JAKEIt's the sky.TONYDid you make this??JAKEYeah, it's the sky above Camp
          Jupiter, the day of the battle.TONYYou're a real artist!JAKENot really.TONYOf course you are. This is awesome!
          You know you'll really like this
          neighborhood.JAKEWe don't live here. It's just a
          reception.TONYIt's become a very bohemian area.
          You know what bohemian means?JAKEYeah...TONYVery artistic.
                      Shooting Script 07/27/15              11.BRIAN (O.S.)Got it, son?

    Brian is back by the car to pick up the stuff.BRIANYou okay with that, Antonio?TONYYou can call me Tony.BRIANWell thank you, Tony. I appreciate
              the help.

    The two boys follow Brian towards the house, the three of
    them carrying plates and bags.6   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/FAMILY AREA - DUSK                     6The apartment is old and in desperate need of a paint job.
    It's a large space, crammed with the stuff of a long life.
    There are family photos, piles of National Geographic
    magazines next to faded velvety couches and solid furniture.
    A small, vintage color TV sits alone in the corner.

    There's a quiet reception going on, with most people wearing
    black, or dark colors, and talking softly to each other.
    Amongst the mostly older friends and relatives of the
    deceased are Brian's sister AUDREY and her husband JAMES, and
    their teenage son, LIAM, dressed in a suit. They are sitting
    on a couch next to Brian, leafing through a photo album.BRIANLet me see. That was our first year
              in the house. Look; I still had
              braces.AUDREYDad looks so young here.BRIANHe was a handsome guy.AUDREYListen to you.BRIANWhat?AUDREYYou look just like him, and you
              know it. Can I have this? Please?
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                12.BRIANYes. I'll let you have the photoIF...Brian picks up a book on the table.BRIAN...you let me have the first
               edition of The Velveteen Rabbit.AUDREYNow, wait a minute.6A   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/KITCHEN - DAY                        6AIn the kitchen, KATHY is re-furbishing a tray of pastries
     with new ones from a box from an Italian bakery. Pilar is
     beside her, cutting fruit for a pitcher of punch.6B   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/FAMILY AREA - DAY                    6BJake is sipping some juice, like a cocktail, and looking at
     the art on the wall: a couple of oil paintings of Parisian
     streets in the wintertime of dubious quality doesn't arouse
     much interest, and he ends up in front of a vintage movie
     poster on the wall, with ahead of its time 60s graphics -
     probably the best piece of art in the apartment.BRIAN (O.S.)Jake, come here.

     Jake goes to see his father, who's standing next to STU
     GERSHMAN, a well dressed gentleman in his 70's.BRIANDo you remember Grandpa's friend
               Stu Gershman?JAKEI don't know.STU GERSHMANLook at you, all grown up now.
               How's school?JAKEOkay.STU GERSHMANSo, what kind of sports do you like
               to play?
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              13.


Jake doesn't play any sports, and it's probably a point of
contention between father and son, given the sudden
uncomfortable moment of silence.BRIANHe likes to draw and paint.

Jake blushes.STU GERSHMANSo you'd like to be an illustrator
          when you grow up?JAKEI don't know.STU GERSHMANWell, come here. Come here.

He pulls Jake in uncomfortably tight.STU GERSHMANI want to tell you a few things
          about your grandfather, Jake: he
          liked to play ball but was a
          horrible pitcher; he hated summer
          but went nuts seeing the ladies
          walk by in mini-skirts; and he was
          the most loyal friend you could
          have. Loyalty was his greatest
          quality.BRIANAww... Thanks, Stu. Did you hear
          that, Jake?

Jake is saved from Stu by a knock on the door. He runs to
open it, and there she is: Leonor holding a beautiful cake.
Kathy, who also heard the knock, comes to see what's going
on.LEONORIt's a dessert we make for special
          occasions in my country.

She hands the cake to Kathy.LEONORI hope you like it.

Jake watches everything.KATHYOh my God. You didn't have to.
                      Shooting Script 07/27/15                14.LEONORMax loved this cake, so I
              thought....KATHYCome in. You should come in.LEONORIt's okay.KATHYPlease. I insist.LEONORNo, I just wanted to bring the
              cake.KATHYSorry if we didn't say anything
              earlier. Brian and I... we're both
              very tired. It's all been so fast.LEONORIt's okay. I still have some
              paperwork to do at the store.KATHYThank you so much for this. It's
              very kind of you. Thank you.

    Leonor leaves, and Jake shuts the door. Kathy is left with
    the beautiful cake on her hands. She looks across the room
    and sees Brian, in the middle of a crowd, holding court,
    being a good actor.7   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL - NIGHT                            7Brian walks down the interior stairs of the house, carrying a
    heavy bag full of trash. At the bottom of the stairs, he
    turns and walks down the dark corridor that leads to the
    backyard.

    He finds the large metal trash containers, and throws the
    bags in.

    Alone for the first time all day, Brian is overtaken by
    memories and allows himself a good cry.8   INT. CASTING OFFICE - DAY                                       8Brian is sitting at a table in a bare room, speaking in a
    strong Italian-American Brooklyn accent.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              15.BRIANI swear B, I'm surprised at you. I
          sit there waiting for you to wake
          up, but everything's great with
          you.

We see he is holding a script, next to SUZANNE, a famous
actress, who's also with a script in her hands. They are
reading from Arthur Miller's A View from the Bridge. Brian is
reading the role of "Eddie" as Suzanne plays his wife,
"Beatrice".

An OPERATOR tapes Brian's performance with a video camera on
a tripod.SUZANNENo, everything ain't great with me.BRIANNo?SUZANNENo. But I got other worries.BRIANWhy? What other worries you got?SUZANNEWhen am I gonna be a wife again,
          Eddie?BRIANI ain't been feeling good. They
          bother me since they came.SUZANNEIt's almost three months you don't
          feel good. It's three months,
          Eddie.BRIANI don't know, B. I don't want to
          talk about it.SUZANNENice! Okay.

Suzanne smiles at Brian, already out of character. But Brian
really would love to keep going.BRIANYou go "you don't like me, heh?"
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15                 16.


Suzanne looks for help from the audience, gently cutting
Brian off.DEBORAH (O.S.)That's good, Jardine.

The casting director, DEBORAH, sits with scripts and lists
under a reading light, and a male ASSISTANT next to her. A
DIRECTOR a PRODUCER, and a PRODUCER'S ASSISTANT sit next to
him.SUZANNE(to the director)
          Yeah, I need a break.DEBORAHTake a break, Suzanne.

Suzanne smiles again at Brian, and comes close to kiss him
goodbye.SUZANNEI'm starving. I've been here since
          ten.BRIANOf course.SUZANNEHow's Kathy?BRIANShe's good.SUZANNEAnd your son?BRIANJake. He's great. He's in seventh
          grade already.SUZANNEOh my God, I remember him running
          around backstage at The Lortel,
          when we did...BRIANDark Rapture?SUZANNEYes! How old was he?BRIANTwo. Three, maybe.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                17.SUZANNETime flies by.BRIANIt really does.SUZANNEWell, it was great to see you.BRIANGreat to see you also, Suzanne.
              Maybe we'll see each other again
              soon.SUZANNEI hope so.
                  (to the audience)
              Jamie? Do you have lunch for me?9   EXT. CASTING OFFICE - DAY                                        9ROGER, Brian's agent, is standing outside the theater,
    texting on his phone. Brian comes out, and they begin to
    walk.BRIANShe fucking hates me.ROGERShe doesn't hate you.BRIANEver since B.U. She dropped out - I
              stayed and graduated. Every time
              we've seen each other since then,
              she always tries to prove that
              she's better than me.ROGERYou're paranoid. You did okay
              there.BRIANDid I?ROGERYes. But it's true that she'll have
              a say in who's cast as her husband.BRIANI'm telling you. She doesn't like
              me. I'm in a slump, Roger. You need
              to help me here.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                 18.ROGERListen, maybe Broadway is not the
               right way to go for you right now.BRIANI thought that was the strategy.ROGERWhy don't we go have some coffee?
               You have options. There are a bunch
               of things that could pan out. Let
               me just finish this.

     Roger goes back to his texting.10   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT - DAY                                 10The apartment has been completely redone. The old furniture
     is out, more modern - if used - furniture is in. There's less
     stuff, so it looks more spacious. There are new appliances in
     the kitchen, and some of the art from Brian and Kathy's old
     Manhattan apartment now hangs on the walls, which have been
     newly painted with fresh colors. Brian, Kathy and Jake have
     moved in, and it looks really nice.

     There are still piles of plates and pans to be put away, and
     a few boxes on the floor by the kitchen. Pilar is taking
     stuff out of one of them. Plates and trays and things wrapped
     individually in bubble wrap and newspaper. Kathy unwraps them
     and looks for places in the kitchen cabinets to put them
     away.

     While she's putting them away, Pilar unwraps a beautiful
     crystal serving plate.PILARI don't remember this.

     Kathy takes a looks at it, trying to remember where it came
     from.KATHYOh my God. We took it home.11   INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - DAY                                11The store has women's clothes on display on simple racks,
     with a few chosen pieces shown on a large table. It's an old-
     fashioned store; the ambiance is simple and unsophisticated.

     BIANCA, a salesgirl, is showing a dress with floral patterns
     to a CUSTOMER as Kathy comes in, carrying the crystal plate.
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15            19.


She is going to say hello to the salesgirl, but doesn't want
to interrupt and goes directly towards Leonor, who is in the
back of the store behind a sewing machine, fixing the collar
of a shirt.KATHYLeonor.LEONORHi Kathy. The boys are in my
          office, in the back.KATHYNo, no. Look what I just found.LEONORIt's my plate.KATHYI think that night we just ended up
          taking everything back to our
          apartment. And then we put things
          away, and I forgot. I'm so sorry.LEONORNo worries! Please.KATHYIt's a beautiful plate.

She takes it from Kathy's hand.LEONORAre you not working today?KATHYI don't see patients on Monday. I
          need a day a week to organize my
          life, you know.LEONORGood for you.KATHYThe store looks cute.LEONORHuh... we're not doing so well.KATHYI like that dress over there. The
          one with the floral patterns.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                 20.LEONORI love that one. You should try it
               on.KATHYI have to go back-LEONOROh, c'mon. It'll take a minute.12   INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - DAY                                12Kathy pulls open the curtain wearing the floral dress, and
     shows it to Leonor, who's waiting outside.LEONORPerfection.

     Kathy walks towards the mirror wearing the floral dress.KATHYAre you sure? I don't know.

     Leonor comes with expert hands and pulls a pinch on the
     shoulder strap.LEONORIt looks great. All you need is a
               little fixing up here, maybe a tiny
               bit tighter here on the waist. But
               the dress is beautiful.KATHYHow much is it?LEONORWhatever the price, I'll give you
               ten percent discount. Let me see.

     Leonor looks for a tag around the cuffs.KATHYDid you make this?LEONORNo. Not this one. But everything
               here is handmade by the designers.
               This one is two hundred and fifty.
               It's made by a woman named Talita -
               she's from Colombia, and very
               talented. They probably do it in
               their kitchens, you know what I
               mean? They're not famous. Yet.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              21.13   INT. CASA DE MODA/OFFICE - DAY                              13There's a video game on the TV. Monsters and battles, and
     sound effects.

     And sitting in front of the TV set, taking it all in, are
     Jake and Tony. It's a small space in the back of the store
     that has been turned into an office - just a simple desk, a
     TV, a chair and a couch in the corner.

     Kathy comes in, dressed in the floral pattern dress. Leonor
     is right behind her.KATHYGuys, what do you think?

     The boys don't move an inch, their attention 100% on the TV
     screen.KATHYJake? Jake, what is our deal?

     She turns to Leonor.KATHYThey're like zombies when they
               start playing these games.JAKE(eyes still on the screen)
               Mom. I'm on vacation!KATHYSo?JAKEDad said it was okay.KATHYWe have this rule in the house; no
               games during the week. And no
               internet before five either.LEONORBut during vacation they have all
               this free time, and what are you
               going to do?TONYShhh! Quiet!!LEONORAntonio! Watch your tone of voice,
               por favor!(MORE)Shooting Script 07/27/15              22.LEONOR (CONT'D)(back to Kathy)
               When he's playing this stuff - I
               know it's not so good, but at least
               he's around, and I know where to
               find him.

     Tony pauses the game.TONY(polite)
               Mrs. Jardine. Maybe you will let us
               finish this level, please?LEONORThat's better.KATHYSure, you can finish. But first you
               have to tell me: what do you think?
               The dress?TONYGreat. I actually thought it was
               yours.KATHYJake?JAKELove it. Love the flowers.

     The boys will say anything to get rid of their moms, so they
     can continue to play their game.14   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/JAKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT               14On the wall of Jake's new bedroom is the vintage movie poster
     that used to belong to his grandfather. The room is painted
     in bright colors, with a small bed, a small desk - a young
     man's cocoon.

     Jake is on his bed, a sketch pad on his lap and his Caran
     d'Ache pencils next to him.

     The door opens. Brian comes in.BRIANWhy don't you come help me prepare
               dinner?JAKEWhere's Mom?
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15            23.BRIANYour mother had an emergency with a
               patient. She's going to be late
               tonight.JAKEAnother suicide?BRIANJake!15   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/KITCHEN - NIGHT                  15Brian washes greens for the salad, as Jake enters.JAKEDad, I can't find my drawings.BRIANWhat drawings? Help me cut these.

     Brian hands Jake vegetables from the sink.JAKEThe series I made on Percy Jackson.
               The sea of monsters?BRIANThose old drawings?

     Jake starts cutting vegetables julienne style, very
     carefully.JAKEYes.BRIANDid you look in the trunk?JAKEYes, Dad. I looked. They're not
               there.BRIANI don't know, Jake. Maybe they got
               thrown away.JAKEWhy would you do that? They're my
               drawings!BRIANWhy don't you just make new ones.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              24.JAKENew ones are never like the old
               ones!

     Jake wishes he could strangle his dad right now. He's truly
     upset.BRIANJake. We moved. We got rid of
               furniture. We threw away clothes,
               and we gave books away. We have a
               new apartment.JAKESo?BRIANListen. Let me tell you something.
               It's good to get rid of stuff. It's
               hard at first, but then it feels
               really good. You have to learn to
               let go.

     Jake keeps cutting the vegetables. He's so angry, it's hard
     not to chop the zucchini into a million pieces....16   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/FAMILY AREA - NIGHT                16Brian and Jake are having dinner.BRIANI play Trigorin. He's a celebrated
               writer, and the boyfriend of a
               famous actress, Arkadina.JAKEWhy the weird names?BRIANCan I finish? Her son Konstantin is
               an aspiring writer who lives with
               his uncle Sorin in this dacha,
               where they all come together one
               summer to see his new play.JAKEFinished?BRIANThat's just the beginning,
               actually.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15            25.JAKEWhat's a dacha?BRIANA dacha is like a big country
                estate in Russia. That's where the
                whole thing takes place, and that's
                why the funny names. There's also
                Nina. She's the neighbors's
                daughter, who wants to be an
                actress. At first she seems to be
                in love with Konstantin but ends up
                having an affair with my character,
                Trigorin.JAKESounds complicated.BRIANWell, it is complex. And
                unexpected. But it has a lot of
                humor in it too.JAKEWhat part?

      The door opens, and Kathy comes in from work.KATHYGood. You guys are already eating.JAKEHi Mom.BRIANHow was it?

      Kathy drops her bag on a chair and goes to wash her hands
      before coming to join them at the table.KATHYFine. She's doing okay. The problem
                now is her husband.16A   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/BATHROOM - NIGHT                     16AKathy is washing her hands in the sink.KATHYBut the last thing I want to do
                right now is talk about work. I'm
                starving.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              26.16B   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/FAMILY AREA - NIGHT               16BThey're already having entrees, but the salad bowl is still
      on the table.BRIANI was just telling Jake about the
                play.JAKEI thought you weren't working with
                the Terrain anymore. I thought you
                were going to do Broadway now.

      Kathy joins them and helps herself to a big plate.BRIANIt's not that simple.JAKEYou said you weren't doing this non-
                profit stuff anymore. That the
                strategy was to reach "a wider
                audience".BRIANWell, things have changed.KATHYJake, you should applaud your
                father for being adaptable. That's
                what life is all about.

      Kathy's worn out. It's been a long day.17    EXT. HERBERT VON KING PARK - DAY                          17A tree-filled park in the middle of a quiet Brooklyn
      neighborhood. On a grassy lawn, a GROUP OF BOYS, 12 to 15
      years old, are kicking a soccer ball into a goal. Two
      captains, UMAR and JOEY, are choosing one by one to form two
      teams.

      Tony rushes by on his scooter, fast. He avoids bumps - he
      knows the area by heart. As he approaches the group of boys,
      one of the boys tries to stop him.UMARTony! Hey! Come play! We need one
                more here!
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              27.


      But Tony doesn't stop, and now comes Jake behind on his
      ROLLER BLADES, trying to catch up. He's surprised by a bump
      on the road, makes a false move, and almost falls.JOEYOops! Watch out, Katy Perry!

      All the boys laugh. Jake is upset but keeps going, pretending
      he didn't hear anything.17A   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL - DAY                       17AThe boys enter the foyer of an old NYC tenement apartment
      building. Tony carries his scooter, while Jake tries to take
      off his blades as fast as he can.

      They clomp up several flights.18    INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT - DAY                             18An old apartment, functional and in need of paint job. Modest
      furniture dominates the space, but there are a couple of eye
      catching art pieces; a large modernist painting and a
      striking sculpture. In a corner, there's a large bookshelf
      filled with books, but one corner has been turned into a bar
      with a few different types of glasses, and various liquor
      bottles.

      Leonor is in the living room preparing a drink next to HERN�N
      ALONSO, Latin, early 60's, dressed in a suit and tie. He
      stands close to Leonor, and leans over to help her with the
      drink. At this very moment, Jake and Tony burst in through
      the door.TONY(out of breath)
                Eight minutes and twenty three
                seconds!

      He throws his scooter on the floor and runs to the kitchen.
      Jake stays by the door, polite, waiting to greet the elders,
      roller blades in hand.LEONORHey! Hey! Hey!TONY(looking at his cellphone)
                A new record! Around the block and
                up the stairs in eight minutes and
                twenty three seconds!
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              28.LEONORWow, I think you should call the
          Guinness Book.TONYThat's a great idea! I'll write
          them an email.

Tony grabs a glass and opens the refrigerator to get some
water.JAKEGood evening, Mrs. Calvelli.LEONORHi Jake.
              (to her son)
          You haven't said hello, Mister!TONYHello Hern�n. This is my friend
          Jacob Jardine. But we call him
          Jake.HERN�NHello there, Jake.TONYHe used to live in Manhattan, but
          now he lives above Mami's store.
          Jake, this is Hern�n.

He finishes his glass of water, and runs to his room. Jake
stays alone with the adults.HERN�NAh! So you are the Grandson-LEONOR(cuts him off)
          Yes. Max was his grandfather. His
          father is Brian Jardine, the one
          that I told you about.JAKEMy father's an actor. And my mom is
          a psychotherapist.HERN�NI see. So how do you like Brooklyn
          so far?
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15             29.JAKEI like it a lot. It's more peaceful
               than Manhattan, and we have much
               more space. It's great.HERN�NSo Jake, are you going to be an
               actor, like your father?JAKEI don't know.HERN�NBut you look like an artist
               yourself. With that long hair and
               everything.JAKEMaybe.

     This conversation is getting too deep for Jake. Leonor sees
     that he's uncomfortable, and helps him out.LEONORHe'll tell us more later, right
               Jake? Go ahead.

     Jake runs inside Tony's room.19   INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT/TONY'S ROOM - DAY                 19Tony's room is typical teenager with a small bed, a desk with
     computer and posters of music and movies. Tony's on the bed,
     lost in thought. He's clearly been listening in on the
     conversation in the other room.TONYIs your father any good at acting?JAKEI don't know. Maybe.TONYI thought if he was, I might have a
               conversation with him, cause I'm
               going to be an actor when I grow
               up. Maybe he can give me some
               pointers.JAKESure, yeah. I guess. He's not that
               successful or anything.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15                 30.


Tony jumps off his bed and pulls open the drawers of his
desk.TONYMy dream is to go to the LaGuardia
          High School for the Performing
          Arts? You know that school? Nicki
          Minaj went there. And Al Pacino,
          but heflunked out.JAKEI think my dad applied there.TONYReally? It's my dream school. I'm
          looking around at some theater
          classes, and practicing on my own,
          so I can audition next year for
          ninth grade.

He pulls out a stack of plays from his drawer.TONY (CONT'D)These are some of the scripts I'm
          working on. I'm going to need to
          practice a lot, and sometimes I
          might need a partner, okay?JAKEBut I'm not an actor.TONYThat's okay. You can read, can't
          you? Here look at this. This is a
          scene from Pariah, or the Outcast,
          by August Strindberg. It's perfect
          for us to work on, cause it's just
          two guys.

Jake takes the book tentatively, and flips through it.TONYAnd you know what, if you practice
          your drawing more, and get better,
          maybe we could both go to
          LaGuardia. It's for all kinds of
          artists. It's very Bohemian.

Jake puts the script down, uncommitted.JAKEI guess I can try.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              31.TONYThat's the spirit.JAKEIs Hern�n your mom's boyfriend?TONYHern�n? Eww, gross. No. He's just a
          friend of her's from Chile. My mom
          is still married to my dad. They
          just don't live together much.JAKEI don't understand.TONYMe either! My dad travels a lot, so
          they are never together. He's a
          nurse, and he works for Doctors
          Without Borders, which is from what
          I can tell a job you get if you
          want free plane flights.JAKEWhere is he now?TONYHe's in Angola. That's in Africa.
          Until he was 20 he never left this
          neighborhood, and then once he left
          he barely ever came back. If I
          wasn't here I don't think he'd ever
          come back to Brooklyn.

Tony jumps up and goes to his desk.TONYLook what he sent me.

He pulls a box from a shelf, full of books and CDs and stuff.JAKEDo you miss having him around more?TONYAt first I did. But it's been a few
          years now, so I got used to it.JAKESometimes my dad goes away, if he's
          shooting a movie. But it hasn't
          really happened in a while.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              32.TONYMaybe he's not the guy I should
          talk to.JAKEI don't know. He's been in a bunch
          of plays and stuff.

Tony is still looking... and he finally finds it.TONYFound it!

He picks up a big book and drops it in Tony's lap.TONYMy dad and I are going to go on a
          safari, and these are just like
          some of the animals we are going to
          see.

Jake looks through pictures of African savannahs and animals.JAKEDo you wish they still lived
          together?TONYSometimes. When my dad comes to
          visit, he'll cook Porcheta. It's
          like roast pork butt.JAKEEwww.TONY(matter of fact)
          It's good.
              (pause)
          We sit at the table just the three
          of us, and he tells stories about
          his work and the places he's been,
          and stories about the different
          people he's met in Africa. Then it
          seems like normal. But then, pretty
          soon they start fighting about
          something stupid. And I realize
          it's better when he's not around.JAKEImagine if your mom goes with you
          on your safari, and they end up
          falling in love again.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                33.TONYI think there's very little chance
               of that happening.JAKEBut just imagine: you get an
               envelope one day. You open it and
               it's two tickets to a safari. One
               for you, and one for your mom.
               And she decides to go, because she
               feels like she needs a vacation.
               So when you get to Africa, your dad
               picks you both up at the airport,
               and takes you to this incredible
               place. Like this photo here. You
               see lions and elephants, giraffes.
               And then, it's the end of a
               beautiful day in the African
               savannah. Your dad wants to take
               you up this big hill to see the
               sunset, but you're too tired, so
               you tell your parents you're going
               to rest in your hotel room.TONYSo they go the two of them alone.
               And when they get there, the colors
               of the sky are like nothing they've
               ever seen before...JAKEA green sky with yellow stars...

     The door opens, with Leonor in an apron and a wooden spoon in
     hand.LEONORWho wants pasta primavera?JAKEYes!

     Jake jumps up and goes out running. Tony stays in for a
     moment, imagining...20   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/BACKYARD - DAY                           20Jake and Tony and Audrey's son LIAM are kicking a soccer ball
     and running around the freshly cut grass and new plants - the
     yard has visibly improved since the old days, and the swing
     set has been removed.

     Brian prepares a grill, talking with his sister Audrey.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15            34.20A   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL - DAY                          20ATony and Jake come in from outside and run down the hall.21    INT. CASA DE MODA/OFFICE - DAY                              21Leonor is sitting at her desk going through the store
      receipts and expenses with a calculator, taking notes on a
      notebook, and entering info in the computer. She is not happy
      doing this kind of work, the numbers make her frustrated.

      Leonor goes through the same papers one more time, re-
      entering the same numbers in the calculator when Tony and
      Jake storm into the office.TONYMami, can I stay for dinner with
                the Jardine's?LEONORTony...TONYPlease Mami. They're having
                hamburgers.JAKEAnd hot dogs.LEONORWe have dinner at home. Besides, I
                can't come and pick you up later.
                And I don't like you walking home
                alone at night.JAKEHe can sleep over.LEONOR(to Jake)
                Have you talked to your father
                about this?JAKEHe won't mind.LEONORAre you sure?TONYPlease, Mami.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              35.22   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/BACKYARD - DAY                         22Brian and Audrey, holding chilled glasses of white wine,
     continue their conversation around the grill, when Jake comes
     running and interrupts.JAKEDad!BRIANYes, Jake?JAKECan Tony sleep over tonight?

     Brian now sees Leonor and Tony approaching also.BRIANWell, hello Leonor.LEONORSorry to interrupt, Brian.BRIANNo, please, you're not... You've
               met my sister Audrey, haven't you?LEONORYes, of course.AUDREYHi Leonor. Long time no see.LEONORJake is asking if Tony can stay for
               dinner-JAKEAnd a sleep-over!LEONORYes, because after dinner it would
               be too late for him to walk home
               alone.BRIANTony, do you want to have
               hamburgers and hot dogs with us
               tonight?TONYYes!
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              36.BRIANDone deal, bro.

He shakes hands with Tony. Tony and Jake go running to play
in the grass.LEONOR(to Brian)
          I just wanted to make sure with
          you...BRIANPlease. I can't tell you how happy
          I am that Jake has a new friend. He
          spends too much time alone. And
          it's not easy for him with other
          boys. So it's great that he and
          Tony get along so well.

Leonor doesn't respond.BRIANYou've got a great kid, but I guess
          you know that.LEONORThank you.AUDREYLeonor, do you want some wine?

Leonor considers for a moment.AUDREYBrian and I wanted to have a talk
          with you anyway, about some things,
          so maybe this is a good time.LEONORNo, thank you. I have to go back
          and finish some stuff at the
          office.AUDREYWe'd love a minute with you if
          that's ok. Right, Brian?

The kids fall on the grass running after the ball.AUDREYLiam, watch out! Your cousin is
          smaller than you!
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15             37.LEONORI have to go. But thank you.BRIANYou know, Leonor, after my father
               died, there was so much to do. We
               decided to move in, and time just
               flew by. You and I haven't really
               had a chance to talk about the
               store, and all that stuff. Maybe we
               can have a chat this week?LEONORThis week is not good for me. I'm
               doing inventory.BRIANNext week?LEONORCould be.

     Brian gets his iPhone out, checking his calendar.BRIANThursday I finish rehearsal early,
               so I could come by early afternoon.LEONORSure.BRIANGreat.23   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/BACKYARD - NIGHT                       23Dinner is served. There are garden lights, flowers on the
     table, chilled wine. Kathy has joined them, in her usual work
     clothes, as has James, Audrey's husband.AUDREYTruth is, the neighborhood is
               changing and that's a very old-
               fashioned store.BRIANC'mon guys! The burgers are getting
               cold.KATHYShe complained to me that business
               wasn't so good.
                   Shooting Script 07/27/15             38.


Jake and Tony approach the table. The adults continue their
conversation in a hushed tone, once the boys are at the
table.BRIANOf course she's going to say that.
          Contract is up.AUDREYMy guy told me that a similar space
          in the area is going for five
          thousand.KATHYWhat??JAKECan I have mine with cheese,
          mustard and ketchup, please?KATHYThat's crazy.BRIANGuests first. What do you want on
          yours, Tony?TONYCheese, onions, avocado. And
          ketchup, please.AUDREYThat's in the low numbers.TONYAnd mayonnaise.KATHYScary.BRIANJake, have some salad also.JAKEI'll have some afterwards.BRIANTony, salad?TONYNo thank you, Mr. J. Is that
          alright if I call you that?
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15                39.KATHYAnd what is the number now?BRIANSure, Tony. That's fine.AUDREYOne something. For eight years,
                never an increase.BRIANMaybe we should talk about this
                later?

      Kathy agrees, shaking her head.KATHYSo Tony, I hear your dad lives in
                Africa.TONYIn Angola. It's an old Portuguese
                colony in Africa. I wrote a paper
                on it last year at school, and got
                an B plus, which was pretty good,
                cause I only spent about an hour on
                it. Sometimes at my school the
                teachers are whack cause they give
                you good grades for the things you
                don't try hard on, and bad grades
                for the things you do.

      Everyone is enjoying Tony, who is making himself very
      comfortable.TONYCan you pass the ketchup, Mr. J?
                I've always liked a lot of ketchup.

      The big family, eating dinner in the garden, under the
      hanging lights.23A   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL                               23AThe boys come racing down the interior stairwell of the
      building, skates and scooters in hand.24    OMITTED                                                     24Shooting Script 07/27/15              40.24A   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - DAY                    24AWide shot of house as Jake finishes putting on his skates,
      and then follows Tony on his scooter down the sidewalk.25    EXT. BROOKLYN STREET - DAY                                   25The boys roll down the sidewalk of a busy Brooklyn shopping
      street.

      They cross a busy intersection. Jake trips on a bump, nearly
      falling, but catches himself in time.26    INT. ACTING OUT TALENT ACADEMY/LOBBY - DAY                   26Tony and Jake come in, sweaty and out of breath, looking
      around, not sure of where to go. A receptionist, LINDA, sits
      at a table full of fliers and a computer.LINDAHi, can I help you guys?TONYWe're here for the acting class.LINDAWe have quite a few. Do you mean
                the Breakthrough Class?TONYYes. That one.LINDAWell, it's twenty dollars for the
                first class. But you can buy a
                package of twenty classes for three
                hundred.TONY(to Jake)
                Got cash, buddy?

      Jake and Tony empty their pockets. Tony counts all their
      money together. There's ten dollars between them. Jake finds
      one more. Eleven.TONYOops, sorry. Hmm. What's your name?
           Shooting Script 07/27/15   41.LINDAMy name is Linda. What's yours?TONYTony. And this is my friend Jake.LINDAHi guys.TONYWhat is your sign?LINDAMy sign?TONYOf the zodiac. But no. Let me
guess.LINDAGo ahead.TONYYou're a Leo.LINDAHow did you know??TONYLeos are very confident. You seem
very sure of yourself.LINDAWow. I'm impressed.TONYLinda, I'm going to be honest with
you. My friend and I heard this
place was the best acting school in
the area, and we would love to
check it out. To see if we want to
make the investment. Can you make
us a discount?LINDALike I told you. If you buy a
package of twenty, you get a
discount.TONYThey also say Leos are very
generous.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                 42.LINDAComes down to fifteen bucks a
               class.TONYWell maybe you can help with
               something else.LINDASure.TONYMaybe you can give me some
               directions?LINDAWhere to?TONYTo your heart.

     The receptionist is taken by surprise by the flirtatious
     joke. She laughs.LINDAYou're too much. Go in. But only
               this time. And don't tell anyone.

     Tony and Jake start past her, towards the classrooms.TONYThank you, Linda. You won't regret
               it!LINDA(calling out)
               Down the hall to the last door on
               the right.27   INT. ACTING OUT TALENT ACADEMY/CLASSROOM - DAY               27Two girls, JULIA (14) and SALLY(13), are standing facing each
     other in the middle of the room, surrounded by a dozen more
     kids sitting in chairs, Jake and Tony, and EVA (also 14)
     among them.

     There is a moment of silence, and then the ACTING TEACHER
     starts to talk.ACTING TEACHERThe first thing is to really look
               at somebody, and just talk and
               listen, listen and talk.(MORE)Shooting Script 07/27/15        43.ACTING TEACHER (CONT'D)Not to act. The genesis of acting
          is seeing. Yes? That's the first
          thing. The raw material of all
          acting is seeing, observing,
          understanding what makes behavior.
          I would say pay attention! So when
          we start doing the repetition
          exercise, that person does it to
          you; you just react. Whereas a lot
          of actors make it happen. Yes? But
          that's not acting. That's pushing,
          whereas you should just be relaxed.

The kids are listening, intently, taking it in.ACTING TEACHERDoes that make sense?

No one answers.ACTING TEACHEROkay, let's begin.

Julia looks at Sally. Sally returns the look.JULIAYou're wearing a pretty shirt.SALLYI'm wearing a pretty shirt.JULIAYou're wearing a pretty shirt.SALLYDo you like my shirt?

The teacher interrupts, abruptly.ACTING TEACHERNO! No questions. Observations.
          Let's start again.

Pause as the girls re-group.SALLYYou have a little nose.

The other kids laugh.ACTING TEACHERQuiet! Concentrate.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15     44.SALLYYou have a little nose.JULIAI have a little nose.SALLYYou have a little nose.JULIAAlright, I have a little nose.SALLYYou have a little nose.JULIAI have a little nose.SALLYYou seem a little bothered.JULIAI seem a little bothered.SALLYYes. You seem a little bothered.JULIAYou're getting a kick out of that.SALLYI'm getting a kick out of that.JULIAWell don't get offended.SALLYI'm not getting offended.JULIAYou are acting like a baby.SALLYI'm acting like a baby.ACTING TEACHEROk. Ok. Stop. That was okay. It
          could be better. Yes? Back to your
          seats.

He turns and looks at Jake.ACTING TEACHERYou. Look at me. Don't move.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              45.


Jake squirms, as if he's been caught.ACTING TEACHERStand up.

Jake reluctantly stands.ACTING TEACHERWe've got to keep the contact.
          We've got to keep the repetition.
          The contact comes from my behavior.
          Not just what I say, but what I do.

Jake looks for help from Tony.ACTING TEACHERLook at me. Now tell me something
          you observed on your way here
          today.JAKEI almost fell.

Laughter from the other kids.ACTING TEACHERYou almost fell.JAKEI almost fell crossing the Parkway.ACTING TEACHER(to the class)
          You see he didn't do it. What was I
          saying?JAKEI'm sorry I don't understand.ACTING TEACHERYou don't need to understand.
          Acting is not understanding. It's
          feeling. It's reacting. Does that
          make sense? Look at me. Listen to
          me.

Jake looks at him intently, trying to do the right thing.ACTING TEACHERWhat did I say without words? What
          did my behavior say? Now say it
          again.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15        46.JAKEI'm sorry, say what again?ACTING TEACHERThat you fell.JAKEYou want me to say again that I
          fell?ACTING TEACHERYes.JAKEWith words?ACTING TEACHERYes, with words!JAKEI almost fell on my way to class
          today.ACTING TEACHERYou fell on your way to class
          today.JAKEI almost fell on my way to class
          today.ACTING TEACHERYou fell on your way to class
          today.JAKEYou're not listening to me.ACTING TEACHERI'm not listening to you.JAKEYou're not listening to me.

Jake is getting more and more upset. Emotional.ACTING TEACHERI'm not listening.JAKEYou're not listening.ACTING TEACHERI'm not listening.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              47.JAKE(on the verge of crying)
               You're not listening.ACTING TEACHERGood! That's it. Good. Do you all
               see the difference? Yes?




     Tony is smiling, beaming. He's in his element.28   EXT. HERBERT VON KING PARK/AMPHITHEATER - DAY             28The group of guys and girls seen inside the acting school are
     now hanging out in the amphitheater of a City Park. Jake and
     Tony, are among them - the youngest in the group.TONYHey, I know you from St. Grace,
               right?JULIAYeah, I used to go there. I go to
               Humanities Prep now, in Manhattan.TONYOh, la di da.EVAWe all went to St. Grace. There
               were some crazy people in that
               school. Julia, you remember Mr.
               Clay?JULIAHow could I forget Mr. Clay? That
               hair!

     She imitates with her hand.JULIAThree hairs came from the bottom in
               the back and somehow they ended
               spreading like a wig in front. Does
               he still do it?TONYYeah. Only difference is now that
               he's older, he does it with two
               hairs, instead of three.
                   Shooting Script 07/27/15             48.


They laugh. The older kids are warming up to Tony.EVAI never even noticed his hair.JULIAHow could you not?EVAMr. Clay was the first love of my
          life. I was completely obsessed
          with him.ALLEeeewwww!!!EVAI used to fantasize about kissing
          him all the time.JULIAGross!

Laughter. Tony laughs the loudest.EVADid you ever see his body? Hello??
          He used to play volleyball with us.
          In the summer he'd take his shirt
          off. He was as hairy as an ape. I
          loved it.

Everybody is laughing together, but Jake, who's not quite
fitting in.JULIASo Jake, you were pretty good in
          class today. That was a tough
          exercise.

She makes him a little nervous.JAKEI don't know.TONYJake's going to be an artist when
          he grows up.SALLYAre you? What's your medium?
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              49.JAKEI paint, but you need to have
               something special to be a painter,
               and I'm not so sure I've got it.TONYYou just need to believe in
               yourself a little bit. That's all.
                   (to the girls)
               My friend has a little problem with
               his confidence. But we're working
               on that. Right, Jake?

     He winks at Jake, as the girls look on.TONYHey, who wants to do the repeat
               game with me? I need to practice.SALLY(taking the bait)
               Who wants to do the repeat game
               with me?TONY(imitating the teacher)
               No questions!!

     Tony runs on to the stage of the ampitheater, and begins to
     imitate the teacher.EVANo questions!!TONYLook at me! Listen to me! Acting is
               not understanding! You don't need
               to understand. Does that make
               sense? Yes? Yes? Yes?

     Julia, Jake and the rest of the kids are watching, amused.29   EXT. ST. GRACE'S SCHOOL/SPORTS FIELD - DAY                   29The sports field at St. Grace's Catholic School, where Tony
     and his soccer group -- including UMAR and JOEY -- are
     playing soccer. They're serious about their game,
     concentrated, running around, sweating and fighting for the
     ball. Tony is the GOALIE.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15           50.30   INT. ST. GRACE'S SCHOOL/CAFETERIA - DAY                   30The school cafeteria at lunch time, filled with hungry BOYS
     and GIRLS sitting in common tables, sharing a meal. ALL THEKIDS ARE IN SCHOOL UNIFORMS.Our SOCCER BOYS, accompanied by a couple of POPULAR GIRLS,
     including LIZZIE, the most popular, form a line by the food
     counter, getting some food.TONYHey Umar, you should try that thing
               that the Brazilian does, Felipe
               Melo. You look to one player but
               you pass the ball to the other
               side.UMARWe could try it if you played with
               us more often.TONYI don't know what you're talking
               about.

     They head to the tables with their trays.UMARYou didn't show up last Saturday.JOEYIt's because Tony has a new
               boyfriend now!

     The boys whistle and scream, teasingly, and the girls laugh
     too. Tony blushes, angry.TONYYeah, ask your sister if she thinks
               I'm the type to have a boyfriend.
               She knows.

     Oohss! and laughter from some other boys.JOEYMy cousin Allen goes to 321.TONYSo what?JOEYThat's his school, isn't it?
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              51.TONYWhat are you talking about?UMARRoller girl.JOEYLittle Jake. My cousin goes to his
               school. They say he's a weirdo.TONYShut up, Joey!JOEYMy cousin says he draws dresses for
               the girls during recess.

     Tony places his backpack on the floor and grabs the hamburger
     on Joey's plate.JOEYHey! Give that back to me!

     Tony licks the bun all over, before putting it back on Joey's
     plate.TONYThere you are. Eat it.

     Joey grabs Tony's burrito, and swings it around in the air
     like an airplane.TONYGive that back!


     He doesn't, provoking even more, so Tony hits Joey hard with
     a punch. The girls scream. Joey responds with a push. Tony
     almost falls for a second, but he gains his strength and
     dives forward to punch Joey. He is held back by the other
     boys, while some of them shout to actually heat up the fight.31   INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - DAY                                31Bianca, the salesgirl, is standing in the front of the store,
     waiting for an eventual customer, when Jake comes into the
     store.BIANCACan I help you?JAKENo thank you.
                         Shooting Script 07/27/15             52.


      Jake goes directly to the back.

      Leonor is sewing. Jake walks by on his way to the office.JAKEHi Leonor.LEONORWait, wait. Where do you think
                you're going?JAKEIs Tony in the office?LEONORHe is, and he's staying there. He's
                helping me out today.JAKEBut we're supposed to meet some
                friends.LEONORAre those the same friends that
                beat him up?JAKEWhat??LEONORThat's right. They beat him up. You
                should ask him why.31A   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA/STAIRWELL - DAY             31AJake walks through the maze of rooms and hallways behind the
      store.32    INT. CASA DE MODA/OFFICE - DAY                              32Tony is entering numbers in the computer, copying them from a
      spreadsheet next to him. He has a band-aid covering a bruise
      on his forehead.

      Jake enters.TONYHey.JAKE(sees the bruise)
                What happened??
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                53.TONYNothing. I bumped into Joey at
               soccer.JAKEBut your mom--TONYShe's so dramatic, she deserves an
               Academy Award. She doesn't want me
               to go out so I can help her with
               this. Look.

     He shows Jake a spreadsheet of numbers.TONYShe's terrible with numbers, you
               know. You go ahead. I'll come find
               you as soon as I finish here.33   INT. OFF BROADWAY THEATER - DAY                             33Brian and two actresses, playing the roles of NINA and
     ARKADINA, are rehearsing on a stage of a small theater.

     For now, there's just some old blankets and a small bench.
     Brian sits on the bench, "writing" something on a non-
     existant notebook. Nina sits on a blanket with pillows next
     to him.NINAWhat are you writing?BRIAN/TRIGORINNothing much, only an idea that
               occurred to me
                   (puts "book" in his
                    pocket)
               An idea for a short story. A young
               girl grows up on the shores of a
               lake, as you have.

     Brian/Trigorin looks away, towards "the lake".BRIAN/TRIGORIN (CONT'D)She loves the lake as the gulls do,
               and is as happy and free as they
               are. But a man sees her who happens
               to come that way, and he destroys
               her out of idleness, as this
               seagull here has been destroyed.

     A pause. Arkadina enters, but remains at a distance.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                 54.ARKADINABoris! Where are you?BRIAN/TRIGORINI am coming this minute.

     Brian gets up and walks towards Arkadina.BRIAN/TRIGORINWhat do you want?ARKADINAWe are not going away, after all.

     Brian/Trigorin embraces Arkadina, while Nina gets up and
     stands up front stage, lost in thought.NINAIt is a dream!

     A pause. It's the end of the scene. A DIRECTOR approaches the
     stage from the orchestra.DIRECTOROkay. Let's try this one more time.
               And Brian, when you mention the
               dead seagull, don't look away from
               Nina.

     An ASSISTANT comes to give the Director a script.BRIANMore seductive, you mean.DIRECTORExactly. You're very myopic. You
               have an obsession with the details
               of things, of people. And in this
               scene you're fully focused on Nina.
               You're like a razor beam.34   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - NIGHT                      34Brian comes walking down the street, a messenger bag around
     his torso, coming back from rehearsal. He approaches the
     house, and sees something that makes him pick up speed.

     Leonor is outside, smoking a cigarette.LEONORBrian. I was waiting.
                           Shooting Script 07/27/15            55.BRIANI'm so sorry. Rehearsal went later
                 than I expected. Is this still a
                 good time?LEONORYes. I sent the girl home early so
                 we could talk. You want to go
                 inside? I'm just going to finish
                 this.35   INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - NIGHT                             35Brian   is inside the store. He looks around, not sure where to
     place   himself. It gets darker and a loud `bang' is heard. The
     metal   shutter has been pulled down to close the store. Leonor
     comes   in.BRIANThe store looks nice.LEONORThanks. I did a lot of work here.BRIANThe reason why I'm here, Leonor...LEONORI know.BRIANYour lease has been expired for
                 more than six months now. I guess
                 you guys were about to renew it
                 when my father passed?LEONORBrian, why don't you sit down.

     They go towards the back of the store. Leonor sits behind her
     desk/sewing machine, Brian in front of her. He opens his
     messenger bag, and takes out a brown envelope.BRIANMy sister and I are working on the
                 transfer of ownership for the
                 house. It's almost done; Dad left
                 everything in order, all the taxes
                 paid and all that. The only thing
                 still pending is the store, which
                 needs to have a new lease.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15             56.LEONORYou know, your father never thought
          much about contracts. He was very
          happy to have me here. Max thought
          my store gave "glamour" to the
          neighborhood, and he was proud to
          be associated.BRIANThe situation has changed, and now
          we have two families owning the
          house; mine and Audrey's. It's
          better for us, and for you, to have
          things done the right way, wouldn't
          you agree?LEONORIt depends on what the right way is
          for you.BRIANLeonor, this neighborhood is
          changing very fast. The rents have
          gone up quite a lot in the past few
          years. I'm sure you've noticed.LEONORYes, I noticed and so did Max. But
          it was his desire that I stay here.BRIANWe don't want you to go away. My
          sister Audrey has prepared a new
          lease for you, and we think it's
          very fair. We aren't trying to get
          market rate here, we know that's
          not possible, but still, you can't
          expect to pay the same rent you
          paid when you first moved in.

Brian pulls some papers out of his bag.BRIANHere, why don't you take a look.LEONORBefore we go any further with this
          conversation, I want you to take a
          look at this.

Leonor opens a drawer, and takes out a small pile of
photographs. She hands them to Brian.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              57.LEONORI am probably the last person to
          have photos printed, the old
          fashioned way. It's completely
          different than seeing them on a
          cellphone, don't you agree?

Brian looks through the photos. Leonor looks over his
shoulder.LEONORThat's me in the backyard, on July
          4th. That's me and Tony and your
          father at the Fair of St.
          Anthony's. That's us with my
          family, when they were visiting.
          Your father and I were very good
          friends. We spent a lot of time
          together. What you and your sister
          don't understand is that Max wanted
          me to stay here. He thought of me
          as part of this house, this
          neighborhood.

He returns the photos to Leonor.LEONORI was more his family, if you want
          to know, than you were.BRIANThat's a ridiculous thing to say.LEONORYou hardly talked to each other.
          You never came to visit. I was the
          one here. I saw him everyday.BRIANThis is not what I came here for.
          Why don't we go back to the lease.
          Take a look, please. It's fair.LEONORNo, I don't need to. I have an idea
          what you and your sister have in
          mind. I'll just give this to my
          lawyer because, to be honest with
          you, Brian, I'm not sure I owe you
          anything. Maybe it's the other way
          around.

Brian is speechless, sideswiped by Leonor's intensity and
conviction.
                         Shooting Script 07/27/15            58.BRIANWell, I guess there's not that much
               more to be said then.LEONORNo.

     Brian walks to the door, and out.BRIANGoodnight, Leonor.

     Leonor says nothing.36   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT                   36Kathy is setting the table. Brian enters and walks through
     without stopping.KATHYBrian. Want to help me out here?BRIANSure, but just give me a moment.KATHYWhat's wrong?BRIAN (O.S.)Is Jake here?37   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/JAKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                37Jake and Tony are playing a video game when Brian comes in.JAKEHi Dad!TONYHi, Mr. J.BRIAN(angry)
               Jake, you know it's a weekday. What
               are you doing playing video games?!JAKECan Tony stay and eat with us?BRIAN(harsh)
               No.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                59.


     They stop playing, and look at Brian with surprise.JAKEWhy not? He wanted to ask you about
               your acting career.BRIANThat's enough for tonight. Turn it
               off.JAKEDad, c'mon!BRIANI said no.TONYWe're about to finish the level.BRIANTony, you need to go home now. We
               can talk about acting another time.

     Brian notices the boys are getting uncomfortable.TONYSure, Mr. J.BRIAN(to Tony, softening)
               I'm sorry, buddy. Your mother is
               waiting for you downstairs.

     Brian makes a quick exit, shutting the door behind him.

     The boys look at each other, unsure of what to do.38   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/BATHROOM - NIGHT                      38Water is pouring from the shower. Brian, naked inside the
     glass, tests the temperature with his hand carefully. He
     adjusts the temperature one bit more, and finally goes under
     the shower.

     Brian takes a deep breath in, and a deep breath out as the
     water rains down on him, hoping it will wash off his
     apprehensions.39   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT                   39Jake, with a backpack, and Tony are in the middle of a
     conversation with Kathy.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              60.KATHYDid you ask your mother?TONYShe loves when Jake comes over.JAKEPlease, Mom? Please?KATHYJake I just made dinner.JAKEI'll eat it tomorrow for lunch, I
                promise.KATHYOkay. But I want you back here in
                the morning.JAKEYes! Thanks.TONYThank you, Mrs. Jardine.

      They run out of the apartment...39A   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL - NIGHT                     39A... and down the stairwell, and out the front door, slamming
      it behind them.40    EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - NIGHT                   40Outside the house, Leonor is closing the gate to her store,
      talking to Tony. Jake stands by watching, withdrawn by the
      tone of the conversation.LEONORNo, Antonio.TONYC'mon, Mami. We have spaghetti in
                the fridge.LEONORWhen I say no I mean it. Don't ask
                me again.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              61.TONYBut we're going to be super quiet!
                Aren't we, Jake?JAKEYes we are.LEONORAntonio. No. Listen to me and don't
                argue.JAKEIt's okay Tony. I'll see you
                tomorrow.

      Leonor begins to walk away.LEONORGoodnight, Jake.JAKEGoodnight, Mrs. Calvelli.

      Tony reluctantly follows his mom, then turns towards Jake.TONYSee you tomorrow.JAKEYeah, see you tomorrow.40A   INT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL - NIGHT                     40AJake enters the dark stairwell. He stands by himself for a
      moment to collect his thoughts, before heading up to his
      family's apartment.41    OMITTED                                                      4141A   EXT. BROOKLYN NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT                       41AA few shots of Brooklyn at night. The streets are quiet. A
      car passes. It's that hour when anyone who's still up maybe
      shouldn't be.42    OMITTED                                                      4243    OMITTED                                                      43Shooting Script 07/27/15           62.44   EXT. HERBERT VON KING PARK - DAY                          44Jake rolls through the park on his roller blades. He arrives
     at the sport's field, and stays on the edge, observing the
     activity of the players.

     Half the kids are without shirts, playing against the other
     team, with shirts. They're running and kicking the ball,
     sweaty, screaming at each other, throwing themselves at the
     ball. Jake sees Tony, playing goalie, and walks towards him.

     They talk as Tony continues to pay attention to game.TONYI'm not talking to my mother
               anymore.JAKEWhy not?TONYShe said you can't come over to our
               place. It's not right.JAKEWhy doesn't she want me over?TONYI don't think your father wants me
               around very much anymore either. He
               might be too chicken to come out
               and say it, but I can tell.JAKEWhy are they so mad at us?TONYOur parents are involved in a
               business matter and it's getting
               ugly. So they're taking it out on
               us.JAKEYou're right. My dad was very cold
               to you.TONYYou'd think I was the enemy.JAKEI won't talk to my parents either
               then.

     The opponents head towards Tony and the goal.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15           63.TONYReally?JAKEReally. Not unless they apologize.UMARTony! C'mon!! Are you playing or
               what?

     Tony looks at Jake.TONYYou sure you can handle it? It
               won't be easy.JAKEOf course I can handle it.

     Tony returns his focus to the game.TONYYou're a great friend, Jake.JAKEYou too.45   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/JAKE'S BEDROOM - DAY                  45Jake is sitting at his desk, working on his drawings.BRIANHey.

     Jake's eyes remain glued to his drawing.BRIANDid something happen with Leonor
               downstairs?

     Jake looks at his father, but doesn't say anything.BRIANThe store is closed. It's not even
               five yet.

     Jake shrugs his shoulders, turns his attention back to the
     paper.BRIANHave you seen Tony?

     Another shrug.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                64.BRIANJake, can you stop playing around
               for a second??

     Jake stops.BRIANDid you see if the store was open
               earlier when you got home?

     Jake shakes his head yes.BRIANWas it open?

     Jake shakes his head no.BRIANNo? It wasn't?

     Brian's cell phone starts ringing.BRIANTalk to me Jake!

     Jake looks at his dad, but doesn't say anything. Brian,
     resigned, picks up his phone.BRIAN(on the phone)
               Audrey. Hi.

     Jake watches as his father walks towards the door, and out,
     talking on the phone.BRIAN(on the phone)
               No, I haven't heard from her. (...)
               Today I got home early and the
               store was closed, it's strange.
               (...) Isn't it better if you call
               her? (...)

     Jake goes back to his drawing.46   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/LIVING AREA - NIGHT                  46Dinner time at the Jardine's; the meal in progress.

     Kathy and Brian are in the midst of a discussion, as Jake
     takes a seat at his usual spot.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              65.KATHYIt's not your fault.BRIANBut I feel very responsible. We are
          responsible.KATHYAudrey will tell you if she thinks
          you owe her money. Don't worry
          about it.BRIANShe sort of did already.KATHYWhat?BRIANShe told me we owe her money for
          the store.KATHYIncredible.

Kathy can't believe this.BRIANYes, I know.KATHYJake. Did you see Leonor today?

Jake, shakes his head no, and sits down at the table.KATHYAh. Still not talking.BRIANNo.

She hands Jake the bowl of salad.KATHYYou know, you can't go on with this
          forever.

Jake starts helping himself.KATHY(to Brian)
          Have you seen Jake's latest
          artwork?
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15             66.BRIANNo.KATHYHe's been doing a lot of
               mythological stuff.BRIANIs that inspired by that book I
               gave you?

     Jake swings his head side to side: more or less.BRIANThe Blood of Olympus.

     Jake swings his head again, more emphatically: more or less,
     I said.KATHYTruth is, if he's really serious
               about applying to LaGuardia, he's
               going to need to start preparing a
               serious portfolio, no?BRIANYes. From what I remember, only 2%
               of the students who apply to
               LaGuardia get accepted. This means
               two out of a hundred. Twenty out of
               a thousand. They're not just
               looking for talent; they're looking
               for serious commitment.KATHYAnd you famously flunked.BRIANI didn't "flunk"!

     Kathy laughs. Jake also. Brian doesn't find it funny.BRIANI wasn't accepted, which is
               different.47   INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - DAY                                47Bianca, the salesgirl, is rearranging clothes on the large
     display table up front when Kathy comes in.KATHYHello.
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15            67.BIANCAHi. Can I help you with anything?KATHYThanks. I'm looking for Leonor. Oh,
          I see her.

Leonor is behind the sewing machine in the back of the store,
fixing a pair of palazzo pants.KATHYHi Leonor.LEONORHi. Just a second, let me just me
          finish this.

Kathy sits on a chair across from her, and waits for her to
finish sewing. Leonor pulls the pants away from the machine,
and breaks the thread with her teeth.LEONORYou're home early.KATHYMonday.LEONORRight. Your day off. Oh, you have
          to see this new dress. Bianca, show
          her the new dress! The green one.

Leonor puts another pair of pants on the machine, and starts
sewing.

Bianca picks up a green dress from the racks. Kathy,
politely, goes to check it out.BIANCARemember the original wrap dress,
          the first one that Diane von
          Furstenberg made?KATHYOf course. Wow, that's an original?BIANCANo, we found this fabric, it's
          vintage fabric. And Leonor made the
          dress herself.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              68.KATHYIt's beautiful. Wow. But it's
          really not my style. Thank you. I
          need to talk to Leonor.

Kathy approaches the back of the store again. This time
Leonor keeps concentrated on her sewing job, and doesn't stop
to talk.KATHYCute dress.LEONORI made it. The fabric is vintage.KATHYYes. I really like it, but I can't
          wear anything too tight on the
          waist these days. I need to lose a
          few pounds first.

Leonor keeps sewing. Kathy looks around the store. She
clearly wants to say something, but Leonor avoids any eye
contact.KATHYLeonor, do you have a minute?LEONORI have to finish this for a client
          tonight.KATHYTony is still not talking?LEONORNo. Not a word to me yesterday.KATHYSame with Jake.LEONORIt's very annoying.KATHYThe one good thing, I have to say,
          is that Jake has been drawing and
          painting more than ever.LEONORIs that good?
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15            69.KATHYYes! If he really wants to apply to
          LaGuardia, he needs to prepare a
          portfolio. Is Tony still planning
          on applying also?LEONORHow would I know? It's been four
          days and he hasn't said a word to
          me.KATHYListen, Leonor, you know that I'm
          trained in conflict resolution, so
          I'm hoping I can help here, help
          settle this problem between you and
          our family.LEONOROh really? Has your husband asked
          you to do that?KATHYNo. And by the way, he's been
          working really hard. I'm not sure
          you know that, but he's rehearsing
          for a new play.LEONORNo. I haven't seen your husband.KATHYI know he's been waiting to hear
          from you.

Leonor doesn't respond.KATHYLeonor?

Leonor continues to sew, until Kathy loses her patience, and
slaps her hand on top of the piece of clothing Leonor is
trying to sew.KATHYCan't we talk about what is really
          going on here?

Leonor is startled: a completely unexpected reaction from
Kathy. She looks over to Bianca, to make sure she's not
listening.LEONORShh. Not here.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              70.48   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/BACKYARD - DAY                           48Leonor smokes a cigarette in the backyard. Kathy is next to
     her.KATHYI know you think we're the rich
               people coming into this
               neighborhood, but the truth is
               Brian hasn't made any money in
               years. I've been supporting this
               family with my hard work.LEONORThat's not my problem.KATHYI know it's not. I'm just trying to
               talk about it.LEONORYou think talking is going to solve
               all your problems, don't you? You
               think you can use some of your
               psychology class tricks and just
               wash away the dirt here? That dirt
               is my sweat, sweetie. It's my life.
               It's not going to be that easy.KATHYI know that. What I want to tell
               you is we will give you time, but
               we need this money. We need the
               shop to cover its rent. That's not
               an unfair thing to ask of a tenant.LEONORBut I'm not a tenant. To Max I was
               more than a tenant. I was family. I
               belong here. And before you go any
               further; let me ask you: do you
               know how much work I've done here?
               The tile floors? The marble
               bathroom? That office in the back?
               I paid for all that.

     Leonor throws her cigarette out. She turns and goes back into
     the store, leaving KATHY alone in the yard.49   EXT. ACTING OUT TALENT ACADEMY - DAY                        49Julia is putting on her roller blades. Tony stands beside
     her, trying to make conversation.
                         Shooting Script 07/27/15            71.TONYYou look like you've been doing
               this acting thing forever.JULIAReally?TONYLike when you did the Emotional
               Recall exercise, it just seems so
               natural, I can't explain.JULIAYou know, my father was a stunt man
               when I was a kid. So I spent a lot
               of time on sets and stuff.TONYSo you have been doing this
               forever.JULIANo, because when I was eight years
               old he died.TONYDid he die doing a stunt?JULIANo! He had throat cancer.TONYOh.
                   (stumped, thinking)
               I'm sorry for your loss.

     Eva comes out of the School, and joins Julia.JULIA(to Tony)
               I'll see you later?TONYI hope so.

     She and Eva leave together, as Tony watches.50   EXT. HERBERT VON KING PARK/AMPHITHEATER - DAY             50At a table in the park, Jake is sketching the landscape in a
     sketchbook, with his collection of Caran d'Aches spread
     around him. Tony is sitting across from him.
                     Shooting Script 07/27/15   72.TONYDo you know anyone with a swimming
          pool?JAKENo, why?TONYI would do anything to see her in a
          bikini. Can you imagine?JAKEI never thought about that.TONYSo what about you? Who do you like?JAKEThey're all very nice.TONYYou can tell me, you know.JAKETell you what?TONYIf you like someone.

Jake keeps sketching in his book.JAKEI don't know.TONYThat's what you always say.JAKEWell I do have an idea you might
          like.TONYWhat?JAKEEva talked about going dancing.
          There's a matinee club, like after
          hours, for kids.TONYWhen is it?JAKESunday afternoon, in the City.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              73.TONYLet's go!JAKEIt would be fun, right?TONYThat would be perfect. If I can
               just dance with her...

     Tony comes closer, to check out Jake's drawing.TONYWow, that's getting good, Jake. I'm
               impressed.51   INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT/TONY'S ROOM - NIGHT                  51Tony is on his bed, playing a video game. There's a knock on
     the door, and Leonor sticks her head inside.LEONORYour father.52   INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                              52NICK CALVELLI, Tony's Italian-American father, is making
     himself a drink at the bar. He's taken by surprise when Tony
     enters running to give him a strong hug and a kiss.NICKTony! Whoa, man, watch out buddy.

     With the impact, some of the drink spills on Tony's head.
     Tony wipes his head with his father's shirt.NICKWait, wait. Let me do this for you.
               Don't worry. This is good luck.
               There you go. So tell me; what's
               going on? How's school? You still
               hoping for LaGuardia?

     Leonor brings a cup with ice to the table.LEONORC'mon, Antonio. You're not going to
               talk to your father?

     Tony shakes his head no, and gives his father another hug.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15           74.NICKDid the cat get your tongue?LEONORYou forget he's too old for this
               kind of joke.NICKWhat happened?LEONORHe's mad at his mother.NICKWhat about?LEONORAsk him.

     Tony looks at them both; he's not budging.NICKTony, now that I'm here you're not
               going to say anything to me?

     Tony shrugs his shoulders. Nick looks at Leonor, questioning.
     She shrugs her shoulders too.LEONORGo finish your homework, Antonio.
               We're having dinner soon.53   INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                           53Dinner is served. Leonor sits down and they start helping
     themselves to food. Tony, ever silent, pays attention closely
     to the conversation.NICKSo what are you going to do,
               Leonor?LEONORI don't know yet, but Hern�n is
               helping me out.NICKHern�n? Isn't he a bankruptcy
               lawyer?LEONORYes.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              75.NICKIs he the best person for this?LEONORHe's my friend. He knows strategy.NICKAre we talking about an exit
          strategy?LEONORNo. A fighting strategy.NICKBut you should have an exit plan.LEONORI intend to fight. They can't do
          this to me.

Tony eats, but his ears are clearly on the conversation. He
is very curious about all this.NICKWhat if they can?LEONORWhat do you want me to say, Nick?
          That I'm going to open a drug
          store? Start making furniture?NICKOr look for a job?

Leonor stops eating for a moment. She can't believe her ears.LEONORYou can't be serious.NICKDon't take everything so
          personally, Leonor. The world isn't
          always stacked up against you.LEONORWhat does this have to do with
          anything?NICKRent goes up. That's life in this
          city. These people are not doing
          this to you.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              76.LEONORWhy do you always have to disagree
               with me?NICKI'm not disagreeing with you.LEONORCan't you be on my side for once in
               your life?NICKI'm just being realistic. Life here
               is expensive. I think you should
               have a plan.LEONORWhat do you think I'm doing? Do you
               think this is easy for me?NICKI know it's not.LEONORThat store is how I have raised our
               son. With not much help from you,
               thank you very much.NICKThat's not true.LEONORReally? Do you think that sending
               him a little gift at the end of the
               year is enough to keep him fed? To
               buy him clothes? To take him to a
               movie every so often?NICKCan we not talk about money now?
               Damn, Leonor. You spoil everything.
               I can't even eat.

     At this, Tony bangs his fork and knife on the table, loudly.54   INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT/TONY'S ROOM - NIGHT                  54Tony and Nick are playing a video game on Tony's bed. They
     are both concentrated, playing and actually having fun.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15               77.NICKCan you keep a secret? Swear? I was
                invited to head the mission in
                Kinshasa. It's a nice big city for
                Africa.
                    (playing the game)
                Oh no. No! No!! Shit.

      Tony smiles. He's winning. Nick jerks his body, tries hard,
      but it's too late. He's lost.NICKNot far from Angola. I'm finally
                going to have my own apartment. Why
                don't you come and stay with me for
                a while? We could go on a safari.
                The rainforest is incredible.
                They're famous for these big
                gorillas, hippopotamus, all kinds
                of animals.

      Tony smiles, and gives his father a big hug.NICKThis acting school thing. Is it
                serious?

      Tony shakes his head yes.NICKHow serious?

      Tony shakes his head again. It's very serious.NICKThat's good. There's a lot more in
                this world than Brooklyn.

      Tony goes to hug his father.NICKListen, Tony. I know your mom can
                be a little rough, but she's just
                worried about you. You're not a kid
                anymore, and she needs you to look
                out for her. I need you to look out
                for her.54A   INT. LEONOR'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                           54ALeonor is cleaning up after dinner, drying the dishes.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                78.55   EXT. MIDTOWN PLAZA - DAY                                    55Audrey and Brian sit on a bench in a concrete garden in
     Midtown, the plaza of a great building, drinking to-go
     coffees.AUDREYWell, Dad must have really liked
               her. That part I think she's
               probably right about. He never
               raised the rent on the store. Not
               even once in more than eight years.
               And now Leonor's lawyer is charging
               us for improvements she made in the
               store.BRIANWhat does that mean?AUDREYShe wants to fight. The woman is
               trouble, Brian. Once again, our
               warm, lovable, unwise father left
               us with a big mess, and no
               instructions.

     They both take that in.AUDREYIs it terrible, Brian, that I don't
               really miss him?BRIANNo, it's not terrible. It's sad,
               but I don't blame you.AUDREYDo you miss him?BRIANSometimes. But I live in his house,
               so I probably think about him more
               than you do.AUDREYShe's claiming she has the right to
               stay paying almost nothing. I think
               we should start the eviction
               process as soon as possible.BRIANI don't want to have to do that.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              79.AUDREYIt takes a while, you know.BRIANI just don't want this to get ugly.
               The boys are best friends now.AUDREYRemember that Dad worked very hard
               to leave us something. Now you have
               a nice big apartment, and I'm
               getting nothing.BRIANJust give me a little more time.AUDREYI can't do this without you, you
               know.56   INT. KID'S DISCO - DAY                                      56It's Studio 54 for KIDS and young TEENAGERS. Jake emerges
     from the bathroom and discovers a dance floor packed with
     boys and girls dancing in groups or doing solo numbers.

     Some come up with elaborate choreographies, while others just
     shake their bodies best they can. Many of them are in
     costumes, some with lights blinking, laser flash lights and
     other Disco toys.



     In the middle of the dance floor, Julia and Tony dance with
     each other - no choreography here, just plain dancing and
     having fun. He gives it all he's got, admiring her, while she
     closes her eyes, and lets the music take her away.

     She opens her eyes, and sees Tony looking at her. Julia
     smiles at him and they have a little moment dancing. Tony
     feels confident.TONYHey, do you want to come with me to
               the beach?

     Julia has a hard time hearing him.TONYThe beach! This summer! You want to
               come with me?

     She just keeps on dancing.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15              80.TONYYes? No?JULIANo, Tony. You're really nice and
               everything..., but I'm into older
               guys.

     Tony's legs slow down, he loses his rhythm.TONYOh, okay. Thank you for being
               honest.

     He's moved a little farther away and she has a harder time
     hearing him.JULIAWhat?TONY(shouting)
               Thank you for being honest.

     A couple of GIRLS begin to dance with Julia, and Tony
     gradually moves away from her.

     For a moment, he seems lost on the dance floor. He looks
     around, and only see strangers.

     By the bar, Jake watches Tony on the dance floor.57   INT/EXT. SUBWAY - DUSK                                       57SHOTS of the city passing by at night from inside a subway
     train.

     There's only a few people inside the subway. Tony and Jake
     are on a bench together, not talking.

     It's the end of a long day.58   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - NIGHT                      58Brian walks down the street, coming home late from rehearsal.
     As he approaches his house, he sees something that catches
     his attention. He moves closer, and takes out his phone to
     light a sign posted on the window of the store.

     On the window, a sign: HELP WANTED - experience in retail
     required.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              81.59   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT - NIGHT                              59Brian comes in from the kitchen, with a bottle of wine, to
     join Kathy. She is on the couch with a book, and a glass of
     wine in front of her.BRIANDo you want some more?KATHYSure.

     He sits next to her, and pours some wine in both glasses.KATHYHow'd it go?BRIANI think it's going to be great. I
               love my part, I love the actors,
               the play is fantastic.KATHYI'll toast to that.

     They make a toast, but Brian seems tense.KATHYWhat's going on?BRIANDid you see the sign Leonor has
               posted in the window?KATHYNo, I didn't see anything.BRIANShe doesn't acknowledge the new
               lease, she doesn't try to negotiate
               and she has no plans of leaving.
               And now she's actually hiring new
               people, can you believe it?KATHYI told you this wasn't going to be
               easy.BRIANAudrey wants to start an eviction
               process. She has a lawyer ready to
               go already.
                           Shooting Script 07/27/15           82.KATHYGood. Then it's decided.BRIANIs it?

      Kathy takes a sip.KATHYWho's going to tell Jake?BRIANI will. It's my problem.KATHYWell then tell him soon. Please.BRIANHe's just being so childish lately.59A   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/JAKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT            59AJake is lying on his bed in his pajamas, with only a reading
      light on. He's concentrated on his work, drawing quietly,
      surrounded by his colored pencils.60    INT. OFF BROADWAY THEATER - NIGHT                            60The stage is set; a lawn by a lake, a dead seagull and the
      wall of a house in the background. Brian and the actress
      playing NINA are in costume and in character. It's opening
      night.NINAWhat are you writing?BRIAN/TRIGORINAn idea for a short story. A young
                girl grows up on the shores of a
                lake, as you have.

      Brian/Trigorin looks intently into Nina's eyes.BRIAN/TRIGORIN (CONT'D)She loves the lake as the gulls do,
                and is as happy and free as they
                are. But a man sees her who happens
                to come that way, and he destroys
                her out of idleness, and this
                seagull here has been destroyed.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              83.


     A pause. Arkadina appears on the window of the house.ARKADINABoris! Where are you?BRIAN/TRIGORINI am coming this minute.

     Brian/Trigorin gets up and walks towards the house. Arkadina
     remains at the window.BRIAN/TRIGORINWhat do you want?ARKADINAWe are not going away, after all.

     Nina stands by herself at the front of the stage.NINAIt is a dream!

     The lights go out, and the audience begins to clap
     vigorously. Kathy sits next to Tony, who is next to Jake.
     Jake is clapping most vigorously of all.61   INT. JARDINE CAR - NIGHT                                    61Brian is driving his car through the city. Kathy is sitting
     in the passenger seat next to him, holding a BOUQUET OF
     FLOWERS. And in the back, Jake and Tony are there, sitting
     next to Roger, Brian's agent.ROGERIt's in your delivery. It's very
               natural. You really manage to make
               Trigorin feel contemporary.BRIANWell, thank you, Roger.ROGERHe's like one of those famous
               artists we meet at a party, you
               know? You're excited at first, but
               the minute you start a
               conversation, you're begging not to
               be left alone with the guy.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15                 84.BRIANIs that a good thing?ROGERYes!KATHYHe's such a tormented artist. It's
          wonderful.

Brian stops the car in front of Roger's apartment building.ROGERAnd there were some really funny
          parts too.BRIANIsn't it! Chekhov called it a
          comedy in four acts.ROGERAct two, particularly.BRIAN(laughing)
          It is.

Roger squeezes Brian's shoulder, and leans over the seat to
give Kathy a kiss.ROGERBye Kathy. Great to see you.KATHYLoved seeing you, Roger. It's been
          a great night.

He high fives with the boys, on his way out.ROGERBye fellas. You should be very
          proud of this man here!

Roger steps out of the car. Brian gives a big smile, and
waves goodbye to his friend.

The car starts again. Brian drives, and looks at the boys
behind him in the rearview mirror.BRIANSo?

Jake and Tony smile.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15                85.KATHYJake? It's your dad's opening
          night.BRIANDid you understand why Nina says
          she's the seagull?

Jake shakes his head yes, Tony shakes his no.KATHYBrian. They're kids. To be honest,
          I'm not even sure I get that part.

The boys look at each other and start laughing.KATHYBut that doesn't take anything away
          from the pleasure of the story.

Brian drives on, silent.

Suddenly, he pulls the car over, and shifts the gear to park,
then turns around, and faces the boys. He's upset.BRIANDo either of you care about anyone
          other than yourselves?

Jake is startled, trying to figure out who to answer to, his
father or his friend.BRIANJake? Say something.

Jake looks at Tony, who is shaking his head vigorously.BRIANSay something!

Jake is frozen.BRIANOne of the hardest things to
          realize as a child is that your
          parents are people too. Can you
          understand that? That they care
          about things. That they make
          mistakes. That they try to do what
          they think is right. Does any of
          what I'm saying make any sense to
          you?

Jake shakes his head yes. Tony laughs.
                          Shooting Script 07/27/15           86.BRIANWhat's so funny, Tony? Why don't
               you tell me, what's funny?? You
               think being an actor is easy? You
               think you have it in you for one
               rejection after another? Let's see
               how you react when you don't get
               into LaGuardia. Let's just see
               then.KATHYBrian...BRIANGod damn it!!

     He turns around, and puts the gear in drive, lurching back
     into the street. The boys look at each other. They are a
     little frightened, and a little victorious.62   INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - DAY                                62Leonor picks up a dress from a pile on the main table, and
     shows it to the new salesgirl, VALENTINA.LEONORDresses go over there, on that rack
               on the left. Before you hang them,
               make sure they have a price tag.
               Also, try to arrange them by color,
               or tone. I usually like to start
               with lighter colors in the front,
               and end with darker ones. Black
               goes in the back. The women here
               like black a lot, so if they're
               looking for a little black dress,
               they might see a lot of other stuff
               before they get there.VALENTINAI see. So if they don't know what
               they want, I try to keep them here
               in the front first, and then show
               them the ones in the back.LEONORUnless they ask specifically for
               black.

     They hear a bell RINGING, and look towards the door. Brian
     comes in.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15               87.VALENTINAHello. Can I help you?LEONORIt's okay, Valentina. It's for me.
               This is Brian Jardine, our
               neighbor. He's a great actor.VALENTINAOh really? Have I seen you in
               anything?BRIANI doubt it.LEONORHe's in a new play. What is it
               called?BRIANThe Seagull.LEONOROh. That must be very popular.BRIANCan you give me five minutes alone?
               Please?63   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/BACKYARD - DAY                          63Leonor and Brian are standing outside. Leonor lights a
     cigarette.LEONORThe day your father died, he came
               by in the morning. I asked him to
               buy me a pack of cigarettes, and
               then I never saw him again.

     Leonor gets emotional, and a tear rolls down her face.LEONORYour father cared about me, Brian.
               Do you believe that? Every day we
               would talk, and we would share
               things with each other. Have you
               ever had a friend like that?
               Someone you could tell anything?
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              88.BRIANOnly my wife. I'm a lot like Jake.
          I've never been good at having
          close friends.

Leonor takes another drag.BRIANI hope you can understand that
          what's happening is nothing
          personal.LEONORI can't afford to pay three times
          the rent I paid your father. It's
          not possible. I can't survive.

Brian doesn't respond.LEONORI thought you were in a new big
          play.BRIANI am in a new play. But it's not
          big, and it's not a lot of money.
          It's just the way it is, Leonor.
          I'm fortunate enough to have had a
          father who left me a house in
          Brooklyn.LEONORHe wanted me to stay here. He told
          me so.BRIANLeonor. I also have a sister, and
          she has her own family, and we all
          have to decide together what to do.
          It's not just up to me.

Leonor takes a moment, and then proceeds in a new direction.LEONORYou know your father thought your
          sister was the one who inherited
          his brains.

Brian doesn't know how to respond.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15              89.BRIANThey were very much alike. I'm sure
               he would agree with Audrey that,
               above everything, it's important to
               take care of business.LEONORNo. He wouldn't have agreed. I can
               promise you that.BRIANLeonor, what do you want me to say?
               I have a family. We have bills too.LEONORDo you know why your father didn't
               go to your son's birthday party,
               the last one?BRIANHe had the flu.LEONORNo. That's maybe what he told you.
               The truth is, he was embarrassed,
               Brian. He was embarrassed that
               everything in your house was paid
               for by your wife. He thought you
               should be more of a man. He hated
               being around you.

     Brian tries to swallow some coffee, but the cup is empty.BRIANWell, he's not around anymore, is
               he.LEONORHe certainly isn't.64   INT. CASA DE MODA/OFFICE - NIGHT                            64Leonor is on the couch in the office, while Hern�n, her
     lawyer, sits on the edge of the desk holding official court
     room papers. He's very serious, and she's clearly very upset.HERN�NThis Holdover clause is common in
               any commercial lease.

     He hands her a piece of paper, which she reads.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              90.LEONORWhat am I going to do? I can't
          afford this.

Hern�n comes closer and puts his hand on her shoulder. The
door opens all of a sudden, and Tony storms in, frightening
Leonor.LEONORJesus! I told you to knock before
          you come in. What do you want?()Tony laughs at the fright he's given Leonor.LEONORI am so tired of you playing this
          silly game!

Tony realizes by the tone of her voice that this is serious.HERN�NI'm sorry, Leonor.

He takes the paper from Leonor's hands.LEONORWhere do they even get this number?

Her eyes fill up with angry tears.HERN�NThe penalty for overstaying may
          seem like a high number, and it is.
          That's why it's in the contract; to
          prevent that the tenant overstays
          paying below the market rent
          indefinitely.LEONORIsn't there anything else we can
          do?HERN�NLeonor, I've done everything I can.
          It's over now. You have a week to
          leave the premises.

Tony sees his mother's eyes tear up with the news. She starts
to cry, and it's too much for him to bear. He goes and hugs
his mother.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                91.TONYDon't worry, Mami. I'm going to
               help you. I promise, I'll figure
               out a way we can work it all out.

     He holds her as her crying turns into sobs.65   OMITTED                                                     6566   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/STAIRWELL - NIGHT                        66The empty stairwell. The doorbell rings. Brian comes down the
     stairwell to the front door of the house.

     The bell RINGS again, just as he OPENS the door.

     Tony is there, with his mom behind him.TONYHello, Mr. J. Is Jake home?

     Brian takes in that Tony is talking to him for the first time
     in weeks.BRIANYes, he's doing his homework.TONYI'd like to talk to him if I could.BRIANOf course, Tony. Come in.

     Leonor catches his eye.BRIANWhy don't you both come in. Leonor.
               Please.

     They walk up the stairs to the apartment.67   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT - NIGHT                              67The door to Jake's room is closed.

     Brian and Leonor sit together just outside at the dining room
     table.

     Kathy is standing a few feet away, at the kitchen door.
                   Shooting Script 07/27/15             92.


They have been waiting for awhile, waiting for the boys to
emerge. It's clearly an awkward situation for everyone.KATHYYou sure I can't get you something,
          Leonor.LEONORYes, I'm fine.

Another moment of awkward silence... Until suddenly the door
opens and Jake comes running out.JAKEMom! Dad! Mom!!BRIANHe talks! Jacob talks!JAKEMom!!!KATHYWhat's going on?!JAKEMom, Tony told me Leonor is being
          evacuated from the store!KATHYIt's not an evacuation. It's an
          eviction.JAKEThat's worse!JAKEHow could you do that? How could
          you do that to them? Dad??BRIANIt's a terrible situation.JAKEThe rent is too expensive! She
          can't afford it, Mom. So Dad needs
          to give her a discount so she can!BRIANYour mother and I wanted to talk to
          you, Jake, but this not talking
          didn't help!
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15              93.KATHYDon't blame this on him.JAKEIt's okay, I'm talking now! I'm
          sorry! I'm sorry! I'll never do
          that again. I promise. Dad, I
          promise.BRIANJake, calm down.JAKEI have a great idea.BRIANLet me explain to you, Jake.
          Grandpa Max left this house not
          just for the three of us here.JAKEI know. He loved Leonor too. Tony
          told me!BRIANHe liked Leonor, of course, but he
          left the house for us, and also for
          Aunt Audrey.JAKEBut I have an idea! I know how we
          can make it work! We go back to our
          old apartment, and we rent this
          place and give the money to Aunt
          Audrey. Tony and I are both going
          to be at the LaGuardia High School
          for Performing Arts in Manhattan,
          so I won't need to take the subway
          or anything to school. I can walk.
          And you'll be closer to the
          theater. I loved the show, Dad. I
          loved it. Tony did too. We both
          talked about it a lot afterwards.
          You were so good! And I thought it
          was really complex and everything.
          I'm sorry I didn't tell you then.
          I'm sorry. But I loved it. I really
          did!

Leonor, Tony, Kathy, and Brian all look in silence as Jake
goes on, trying to make this adult mess make sense again.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15               94.67A   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - NIGHT                   67AWe see the house from the otuside. The gate has not been
      pulled down on the storefront yet, but most of the lights are
      off.

      Upstairs the lights are all on.68    EXT. BROOKLYN - NIGHT                                        68A wide shot of the city of Brooklyn, houses and trees, the
      Verrazano-Narrows Bridge in the distance.69    EXT. BROOKLYN - DAY                                          69A similar shot across Brooklyn at day, with the bridge and
      the water and Manhattan in the distance.70    INT. CASA DE MODA/STORE - DAY                                70There are no clothes anymore, no decorations on the wall, the
      racks are bare naked. The store is completely empty.70A   EXT. JARDINE HOUSE/CASA DE MODA - DAY                     70AJake takes a look inside the store through the window.
      There's a "FOR RENT" sign on the glass. Jake looks for a good
      long moment, and then skates off down the street.71    EXT. HERBERT VON KING PARK - DAY                             71Boys are playing a game of soccer.

      Jake approaches on his roller blades, and comes to a stop at
      the edge of the field. He watches the game from the side.
      Umar and Joey are among the players, but not Tony.

      Jake skates away, through the park.72    EXT. BROOKLYN NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY                             72Several shots of Jake skating through the neighborhood
      streets.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              95.72A   EXT. WATERFRONT PARK - DAY                               72AWe see Jake alone for almost the first time, and he is both
      more vulnerable, and more confident. He passes by the
      Verazzano-Narrows Bridge, and then along the waterfront. He
      moves in silence, only the sound of the wind and the expanse
      of the Bay beside him.73    OMITTED                                                   7374    EXT. WATERFRONT PARK - DAY                                74Brian pulls up in his car, comes to a stop, and gets out. And
      already walking towards the car is Jake, with bandages on his
      right knee, being helped along by a PARK RANGER, who carries
      his roller blades.PARK RANGERMr. Jardine?BRIANHow are you, Son?JAKEI'm sorry, Dad.BRIANWhat happened?JAKEThere was a bump on the path...PARK RANGERWe got a call from a woman who saw
                Jake here flying through the air
                and landing on the asphalt. When we
                found him, he couldn't move.JAKEI'm better now.PARK RANGERHe is better. But he probably
                shouldn't be on his own at his age.JAKEThere was a bump, I didn't see.BRIANAre you hurt?

      Jake shrugs.
                       Shooting Script 07/27/15                 96.PARK RANGERHe fell on his right side shoulder,
               and he scraped his knee.BRIANLet's go home.

     The ranger helps Brian put Jake in the back, with his leg
     stretched out and his foot up on the seat. Brian gets in to
     the driver's seat of the car.75   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/JAKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT                75Jake is lying down on his bed. Kathy applies antibacterial
     cream carefully to his scraped knee.KATHYIs it okay like this?JAKEYeah. Go slow.KATHYAnd how's your arm? Can you move it
               okay?JAKEIt hurts when I go like this.

     He moves it up and down a hair. Brian is standing behind
     them, in the dark.BRIANDad had a heating pad that he used
               to use. I can't find it.
                   (to Kathy)
               You know where it is?KATHYI think it's in the hall closet.
               I'll get it in a minute.

     She finishes with the cream, then gives Jake a kiss, and
     steps out.

     Brian takes over for her to finish the bandages.BRIANDo you still have a lot to do to
               finish your portfolio?
        Shooting Script 07/27/15      97.JAKEI just need to finish one painting,
and then I'm done.BRIANThat's what you said last week. You
just had to finish one painting.JAKEI want them to be good.BRIANJake, do you by any chance remember
that story I told you, about my
friend Tina?JAKEThe one who sold her hair in India
for a train ticket?BRIANNo, that was Martine. Tina was a
girl I knew in high school who was
a dancer. Her mother was a dancer.
She was literally born to be a
dancer. She had a perfect ballet
dancer's body, and all of us were
certain she was going to be a big
success.JAKEHave I seen her dance?BRIANNo. During high school, she got
into a really good conservatory,
and I ran into her a couple of
times after that, and she was
always about to get this, or about
to get that. But each time, her arm
would be in a sling, or she would
be on crutches. She would have a
pulled ligament. Or a stress
fracture in her back. The last time
I saw her, I ran into her on the
subway, it was clear she hadn't
danced for years. She was fat. You
would have never imagined that she
was the same girl.JAKEGee, thanks Dad. That's a very
encouraging story.
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15      98.BRIANWhy do you think Tina didn't go
          very far?JAKEI don't know.BRIANShe trained too hard. She practiced
          too much. She didn't trust her own
          natural abilities.

He continues to wrap the bandage.BRIANJake, you're going to meet a lot of
          really talented people in your
          life. But they won't all be suited
          to be artists, they won't all have
          the brains to know when to insist,
          and when to stop. When to push
          yourself, and when to relax. Most
          of them won't have that balance.JAKEAnd how do I know if I have the
          balance?BRIANThat's why I'm telling you this,
          because you'll turn in your
          portfolio soon, and they're going
          to love it. They're going to love
          you. I know they will. You'll go to
          LaGuardia, and you'll have fun, but
          also plenty of challenges. Soon
          enough you'll find out if you have
          the balance.

The bandage is done.BRIANThere you go. Do you know if Tony
          got in?JAKEI don't know. I don't know what
          he's doing.

Brian looks at Jake.BRIANSon. I wish I'd done things
          differently.
                    Shooting Script 07/27/15              99.JAKEWhat do you mean?BRIANWith Tony, and his mother. I wish I
          had told you earlier what was going
          on.JAKEWould it have changed anything?BRIANNo, probably not. But still.JAKEDad, would you mind if I give you
          some advice? Would that be okay.BRIANPlease.JAKEDon't worry so much.

Brian waits for more.JAKEThat's all.BRIANThat's a lot.

Brian gives Jake a kiss on the forehead, and stands up.JAKEDad, would you mind if I play one
          of my video games? I know it's
          Tuesday, and I know I should do
          something more productive with my
          time, but I'm kind of tired.BRIANOf course, Son.

Brian finds the game controller, and hands it Jake.JAKEWill Mom be mad?BRIANI don't think so.
                        Shooting Script 07/27/15              100.75A   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT - NIGHT                             75AKathy stands outside the door, heating pad in her hands,
      listening to her husband and son. She holds back her tears.

      Brian comes out of the room and closes the door. He sees
      Kathy, who begins to weep, as quietly as she can.

      Brian wraps his arms around her and they hold each other
      tightly.75B   INT. JARDINE APARTMENT/JAKE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT              75BJake is in bed. He can hear the sounds of his parents outside
      the door.

      He switches on one of his video games, and let's the noise
      cover everything around him.76    INT. BROOKLYN MUSEUM/FOYER TO BEAUX-ARTS COURT - DAY         76A small group of stylish BOYS and GIRLS are sketching some of
      the pieces in the foyer of a grand room in the Brooklyn
      Museum. By the way they dress and move, they're clearly
      artistic. Among them, looking more mature, more serious and
      maybe gay, with a stylish scarf around his neck, is Jake.
      Time has gone by; maybe a year or two.76A   INT. BROOKLYN MUSEUM/BEAUX-ARTS COURT - DAY                76AJake and his friends enter the formal and elegant Beaux Arts
      Court. Across the way, between arches, Jake sees a group of
      kids in khaki's and red shirts -- Tony's Catholic school
      uniform -- walking in the opposite direction.

      They are with one AFRICAN BOY, who is not in uniform.

      For a moment, he doesn't know what to do. Until, suddenly, he
      makes up his mind, and moves.76B   INT. BROOKLYN MUSEUM/BEAUX-ARTS COURT - MOMENTS LATER      76BJake walks in one direction around the courtyard.

      Tony and his friends continue to walk around the other side.

      Jake sees Tony and his friends exit the Court, and he
      follows.
                              Shooting Script 07/27/15         101.76C   INT. BROOKLYN MUSEUM/STAIRWELL - MOMENTS LATER              76CTony and his friends walk down the interior stairwell of the
      Museum.

      Jake follows. But at some point, he loses Tony and his
      friends. They have exited the stairwell without him knowing.

      Jake rushes down the stairs, trying to catch up.76D   INT. BROOKLYN MUSEUM/ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ART ROOM - CONTINUOUS76DJake comes out of the stairwell into the Egyptian art area.
      He's out of breath.

      He looks in all directions, but doesn't see Tony anywhere.76E   INT. BROOKLYN MUSEUM/STAIRWELL - MOMENTS LATER              76EJake is sitting by himself in the stairwell.

      He is looking straight ahead. Not sure what to do with
      himself.

      A pack of kids in khakis rush past him. We only see their
      legs.

      Jake watches them go.TONY (O.S.)Jake! Your hair looks different.

      It's Tony.

      Jake stands up to say hello.JAKEYours looks different too.TONYI went to Africa to visit my dad.JAKEHow was it?TONYAmazing.JAKEAnd how's your mom?
                   Shooting Script 07/27/15            102.TONYShe's busy. She's a real estate
          agent now.

Jake laughs at the irony of the situation. Tony laughs with
him, maybe realizing it for the first time.JAKEYou could've sent me an email from
          Africa.TONYYou know me. I'm not much of a
          writer...

Jake notices a necklace of African beads around Tony's neck.JAKEI love that necklace.TONYThanks. They make these for
          tourists, they don't really wear
          them there. But I like it too.JAKEHey, you should come meet my
          buddies from school.TONYDid you get into LaGuardia?JAKEI did.TONYThat's awesome!JAKEThere's this girl in my class, her
          mother is on Broadway, she can act
          better than anyone I know.TONYGee, thanks.JAKEWe should all go out together
          sometime.TONYSure, but I met this girl in
          Kinshasa, and my heart belongs to
          her. Do you want to see a picture?
                  Shooting Script 07/27/15             103.JAKESure.

Tony pulls out his phone, and shows him pictures.TONYShe's a really good kisser. She's
          going to come to visit soon.JAKECool.TONYAnd you, have you kissed anyone
          yet?JAKENo, but I've met someone.
              (pause)
          You'll meet him.

Tony's face lights up, grinning from ear to ear.TONYYou know! Finally, you know!

Jake and Tony share a knowing laughter.TONYI'm here with a friend from Congo.
          Let's go find him. He's teaching me
          French, and I help him with his
          English - he says "bitchful",
          like... "This sculpture is so
          `bitchful'".

They laugh even louder, and head down to find Tony's friends.

The stairwell is empty, and white, and filled with sunlight.

IRIS TO BLACK, and the CREDITS ROLL.