THE KING'S SPEECHWritten by

                             David SeidlerOPEN ON:1   INT. BATHROOM, YORK HOUSE, LONDON - DAY (MID-1930'S)              1A shimmering surface of cold water - held in an immense, free
    standing, white enamelled bathtub with gilded lion's legs -
    bulges in SLOW MOTION to the chords of Handel's "Trumpet
    Volunteer".

    A head emerges.

    White gloved hands, in livery, rush to envelope the surfacing
    naked wet body in white towels.2   INT.    DRESSING CHAMBER, YORK HOUSE - DAY                        2The ritual continues with crisp military precision.

    CLOSE ON the Royal Coat Of Arms stamped in gold: lion and
    unicorn embrace a shield divided into four quarters with harp,
    thistle, and more lions denoting England, Ireland, Scotland and
    Wales. The shield is surmounted by a crown.

    This emblem is on a cuff-link fastened on a starched white
    shirt.

    Trousers, pressed to a knife-edge, are held for stockinged feet
    and gartered legs to be inserted.

    Mirror-polished boots are laced tight.

    Jacket, held ready. Arms, shoulders, chest received.

    Glistening medals attached to front of jacket create a dazzling
    field of ribbons and medallions.

    Epaulets, edged with gold braid tassels, are adjusted.

    Polished buttons are fastened.

    Multi-coloured collar clasped shut.

    White ostrich feathers, topping a tri-corner hat, are fluffed
    and placed upon brilliantined hair.

    PAN DOWN to the handsome features of Albert, Duke of York, known
    to his family as BERTIE. He's in his late thirties, the second
    son of King George V, the reigning King of England. He conveys a
    sensitivity which appears in conflict with the manner in which
    he's been bedecked.

    Reflected in a full length mirror, Bertie tells himself:
           TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    3.BERTIEYou look like a Christmas tree.

    He smiles wanly.3   EXT.    INNER COURTYARD, YORK HOUSE, 145 PICADILLY - DAY            3THE ROYAL STANDARD flaps atop a gleaming chrome grill.

    Liveried footmen open the doors of a stately Austin Princess.

    Bertie exits York House with his young wife - ELIZABETH -
    considered by all to be one of the loveliest women in the land,
    truly an English rose. Golden Labradors and Corgis appear from
    all directions, weaving between them, barking boisterously,
    creating a happy chaos.

    Elizabeth and Bertie glance upwards and wave.

    Two little girls, LILIBET and MARGARET ROSE, aged eight and
    four, wave back from their nursery window.4   INT/EXT.    AUSTIN PRINCESS, HYDE PARK CORNER - DAY                 4Bertie nervously lights a cigarette.    Elizabeth pats his hand.ELIZABETHBuck up, Bertie. The BBC said it wouldn't
                   rain.

    BERTIE'S POV - Speaker's Corner with its assortment of orators,
    prophets, protestors, and onlookers gathered around soapboxs,
    agreeing, disagreeing, shouting comments. Others carry
    placards, sing protest songs. A miners' strike is the focus of
    the day.

    A large, rather untidy workingman with a florid rosacea nose
    spots the passing Austin and stares at the occupants.

    REVERSE ANGLE - Bertie's face stares back.

    The first drops splatter against the glass.      Elizabeth sighs.ELIZABETH (CONT'D)Never trust the wireless.

    Bertie's face is obliterated by the increasingly heavy downpour,
    which segues into a GARGLING sound.
           TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     4.5   INT.    BBC BROADCASTING STUDIO - DAY                                5A gentleman in a tuxedo, carnation in boutonniere, is gargling
    while a TECHNICIAN holds a porcelain bowl and a towel at the
    ready. The man in the tuxedo is a BBC NEWS READER. He
    expectorates discreetly into the bowl, wipes his mouth
    fastidiously, and signals to ANOTHER TECHNICIAN who produces an
    atomizer. The Reader opens his mouth, squeezes the rubber bulb,
    and sprays his inner throat. Now, he's ready. He looks to the
    control room.

    The FLOOR MANAGER begins a count-down: five... four... three...
    two...BBC NEWS READERLadies and Gentlemen: good afternoon. This
                   is the BBC National and World Programmes
                   taking you to Wembley Stadium.

    He speaks in flawless pear-shaped tones.    There's no higher
    creature in the vocal world.6   EXT.    WEMBLEY STADIUM - DAY                                        6ELEVATED SHOT looking down on a sea of dripping black umbrellas
    hiding the spectators from view.

    Bertie and Elizabeth takes their places in a row of gilded
    chairs with the other dignitaries. They are:

    KING GEORGE V - a barrel-chested man with Naval beard and
    uniform, accompanied by his wife.

    QUEEN MARY - an elegant but icy grande dame.

    DR COSMO LANG - a tall, unctuous, churchman with a high, domed,
    balding head, and a perpetual expression of moral superiority.

    WINSTON CHURCHILL - a politician of sixty, as portly as Lang is
    lean. They are bantering rivals in ambition.

    STANLEY BALDWIN - the Prime Minister of the day. Heavy-browed.
    His hair, as always, parted down the middle.

    NEVILLE CHAMBERLAIN - Chancellor of the Exchequer. Tall, thin,
    lugubrious, with the expression of a quizzical chicken hawk.

    A BBC technician places a huge imposing microphone suspended on
    springs next to the stadium equipment. It looks frightening,
    even to us. Bertie's shoulders brace as though expecting a
    blow. Elizabeth sees his terror.
           TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                  5.ELIZABETHWhy wasn't he told?COSMO LANGTen million people listening around the
                   world, Mam. Possibly more.
                       (as though Bertie didn't
                        exist)
                   His brother, and father, have been
                   broadcasting since last year.

    The King, growing impatient, hisses:KING GEORGE VGet on with it. Show what you're made of!

    Bertie moves forward diffidently, without an ounce of
    confidence, knowing deep within he's doomed. His stomach knots,
    chest muscles contract, constricting his breath.BERTIELuh-luh-lords, la-la-ladies, gen-tell-men.

    It is a shock to realize this is a man with a profound stutter.
    A man who cannot speak in public.

    Lang whispers to Churchill.    When Lang whispers, everyone can
    hear.COSMO LANGI wouldn't miss His Highness' maiden voyage
                   for all the world. And on such an important
                   occasion.

    Lang really is a piece of work.

    For ease of reading, Bertie's stutter is not indicated from this
    point on in the script.BERTIENo doubt you wish the Prince Of Wales was
                   standing before you today.

    POV - a sea of dripping umbrellas. No response. This is going
    to be a torment for him, and his audience.7   INT.    BBC BROADCASTING STUDIO - DAY                             7A glowing dial on the face of a studio radio.    Everyone
    listening intently.
            TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                  6.BERTIE (ON RADIO)(stuttering profoundly)
                    Be that as it may...my brother David is
                    attending to other duties in the furthest
                    parts of this vast Empire...

     The radio falls silent.       Eyes widen in concern.8    EXT.    WEMBLEY STADIUM - DAY                                     8Bertie stands frozen, his mouth agape, jaw muscles locked. He
     knows he's considered by all, especially himself, unfit for
     public life.

     Elizabeth is devastated.KING GEORGE VJust needs more practice.9    EXT. HARLEY STREET - NEW DAY                                      9TRACKING SHOT - rain splatters on brass plaques denoting Dr This
     or Dr That, specialists in various maladies. Halt at a plaque
     that reads: LIONEL LOGUE, SPEECH SPECIALIST.10   INT. RECEPTION ROOM, LOGUE'S CHAMBERS, HARLEY STREET - DAY     10Umbrella stand, coat rack, wooden waiting bench: that's all.

     The door is flung open and Elizabeth enters, drenched, her hat
     decorated with white silk roses, now limp. A veil covers her
     features.

     She waits. Coughs.    No response.    Calls imperiously:ELIZABETHAre you there?

     From behind a door:LIONEL (O.S.)In the lav.

     Princess Elizabeth is not used to this sort of thing. She's
     further appalled by the loud gurgling of a toilet being flushed,
     and startled by the entrance of - LIONEL LOGUE. He's in his
     forties, tall, with piercing eyes and charismatic features. His
     demeanor is friendly, but professional. The accent, although
     Australian, is not heavy, he is after all a speech therapist.
    TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                        7.LIONEL (CONT'D)"How poor are they that have not patience!
            What wound did ever heal but by degrees?"ELIZABETHPardon?LIONELIago...world's greatest villain. Just wants
            to be bad. Sorry, no receptionist.

He offers to shake hands.    She doesn't take it, even though
she's gloved.ELIZABETH(with sang froid)
            I'd be more comfortable in your office.LIONELThat's for clients. Where's Mister J?ELIZABETHHe doesn't know I'm here.LIONELThat's not a promising start.ELIZABETHMy husband's seen everyone. They were all
            useless. He's given up hope.LIONELA bit premature.ELIZABETHBecause he hasn't seen you?

Lionel doesn't disgree.ELIZABETH (CONT'D)You're very sure of yourself.LIONELI'm sure of anyone who wants to be cured.ELIZABETHOf course my husband wants to be cured! His
            position requires public speaking upon
            occasion. A torment. I fear the requirement
            may grow more frequent.LIONELHe should change jobs.
    TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     8.ELIZABETHHe can't.LIONELIndentured servitude?ELIZABETHSomething of that nature.LIONELWell, have your `hubby' pop by and give his
            personal history. I'll make a frank
            appraisal.ELIZABETHDoctor...

Logue tries to object but she over-rides.ELIZABETH (CONT'D)...I do not have a "hubby". We never talk
            about our private lives. Nor do we `pop'.
            You must come to us.LIONELSorry, this is my game, played on my turf,
            by my rules.

The lady lifts her veil.ELIZABETHPerhaps you'll make an exception?

He recognizes her instantly, and is clearly impressed, yet
refuses to be intimidated.LIONELI thought the appointment was for
            "Johnson"?ELIZABETHA name used during the Great War, when the
            Navy didn't wish the enemy to know His
            Royal Highness was aboard.LIONELI'm considered the enemy?ELIZABETHYou will be, should you continue to be un-
            obliging.
            TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                  9.LIONELFor my method to succeed there must be
                    mutual trust, complete honesty, and total
                    equality. That process takes place in my
                    consultation room. No exceptions.ELIZABETHIn which case...
                        (re-lowering her veil)
                    I should have kept my pledge. I promised my
                    husband I'd stop seeking "The Great Cure."
                    I've wasted your time. And mine.

     She exits, closing the door firmly behind her.LIONELBloody hell, I buggered that.

     WACK! The sound of something solid meeting leather.11   EXT.    SOUTH KENSINGTON STREET - LATE AFTERNOON              11A foot kicks a ball. Lionel is returning home from work. He's a
     well-known fixture locally. Some lads are playing footie. One
     of them passes the ball to Lionel who, despite briefcase and
     rolled brolly, dribbles skillfully before passing the ball and
     entering a modest brownstone.12   INT.    LOGUE'S ENTRYWAY AND STAIRWELL - LATE AFTERNOON       12As Lionel mounts the stairs he's set upon by three sturdy boys -
     VALENTINE, IAN, and PETER - with handkerchiefs tied around the
     lower portions of their faces and armed with broomstick swords.VALENTINEStand and deliver!LIONEL(falling into the game)
                    `ow dares molest...Jack The Ripper?!

     The boys scream with delight and a sword fight ensues - Lionel
     using his brolly.LIONEL (CONT'D)Beware, Highwaymen, or I'll run yee
                    through.PETERWe're Swagmen, not Highwaymen, Dad.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   10.LIONELOh.
                     (then)
                 Beware, jolly Swagmen, I'll skewer yer
                 gizzards.

     Lionel wife - MYRTLE - appears at the head of the stairs; a
     sweet-faced, down-to-earth woman.MYRTLEYou'll all hang from the gallows if you
                 don't come for tea.LIONELBoys, I think we'd best go up.13   INT. LOGUE'S DINING ROOM - EVENING                            13Logue, Myrtle, and the boys are finishing at the table.LIONELHad a visit from a lady today.MYRTLEAnother spoiled silly?VALENTINEMay we be excused?LIONELYou must stay, bored stupid, listening to
                 your parents' inane conversation.THE BOYS(grinning)
                 Thanks, dad!LIONELAnd mum.THE BOYSAnd mum!

     They start to leave.MYRTLETake your plates.

     The boys grabs their plates and exit. After a moment...MYRTLE (CONT'D)No wonder about the silly. You're so good
                 at what you do.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                      11.LIONELAt what I do.
                      (then, deliberately being
                       `theatrical')
                  Twas a Lady with a capital L.MYRTLEOh, Lionel, that'd get us home in grand
                  style wouldn't it?!LIONELShe came on behalf of her husband. Which is
                  not the proper way. I told her I was fully
                  booked.

     Myrtle is clearly disappointedLIONEL (CONT'D)She was...too high and mighty. Know what I
                  mean.

     She does.   There's an unspoken code between them.MYRTLEWe wouldn't want that.

     Covers her letdown.MYRTLE (CONT'D)Hard to feel sorry for that sort.

     Silence, then:LIONELHad a call. Wish me luck?MYRTLECourse, Lionel. Loads and loads.14   INT. CHILDREN'S NURSERY, 145 PICCADILLY - NIGHT                14Elizabeth, fashionably attired for an evening-out, is curled on
     a bearskin rug reading "Peter Pan" to the girls.ELIZABETH"Mr. and Mrs. Darling and Nana rushed into
                  the nursery too late. The birds were
                  flown."

     Bertie enters, handsome in a tuxedo.     Elizabeth closes the book.ELIZABETH (CONT'D)Tomorrow, Chapter IV, `The Flight'.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    12.


The two little girls clap with joy.MARGARET ROSEOh, to fly away!BERTIEWeren't they lucky.

Within his family, Bertie's stutter is virtually absent.LILIBETOne would have to learn to fly properly of
            course.MARGARET ROSENow a Daddy story!BERTIECan I be a penguin instead?

He drops to his knees and waddles. In his tux he looks like a
penguin. The girls giggle, but are undeterred.LILIBETThe horsie story, please.BERTIEAh well.

Called upon to perform, the stutter returns slightly. But the
two girls listen raptly, ignoring their father's minor
impediment, and it fades.BERTIE (CONT'D)Once upon a time there were two horsies. A
            white horse that went clip clop clip clop
            through Hyde Park. And a black horse that
            went clip clop clip clop through Hyde Park.
            They met in the middle of Hyde Park. The
            white horse said "neigh". The black horse
            said, "neigh". The white horse continued
            on, clip clop clip clop through Hyde Park.
            The black horse continued on, clip clop
            clip clop through Hyde Park. And that's the
            end of the story. Now off to bed.

As the girls exit:LILIBETA silly story really. But Father tells it
            rather well.

The girls have gone.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                               13.BERTIEDavid called. He said come round to The
                 Fort on Friday and stay for dinner.ELIZABETHWill she be there?BERTIEI suppose.ELIZABETHSeriously?BERTIESeriously, she'll be there.ELIZABETHI think I meant... is David serious?BERTIEAbout our coming?ELIZABETHAbout her!BERTIEA married American? Twice divorced? He
                 can't be.ELIZABETHShe can.15   INT. STAGE OF A LONDON THEATRE - NEW DAY                15Movements behind a curtain.MUFFLED VOICE (UNSEEN)Now?

     From the auditorium:DIRECTORNow!

     Someone pushes through a gap. Its Lionel.LIONEL"Now..."

     Falters, begins again.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    14.LIONEL (CONT'D)"Now is the winter of our discontent
                  Made glorious summer by this sun of
                  York..."

     His elocution is crisp and flawless. His acting, however, is
     unconvincing.LIONEL (CONT'D)"And all the clouds that lour'd upon our
                  house
                  In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.
                  Now are our brows bound with victorious
                  wreaths..."DIRECTOR(interrupts crisply)
                  Thank you. Beautiful diction...but I don't
                  hear the cries of a deformed creature
                  yearning to be King.

     Lionel struggles to maintain a semblance of dignity.LIONELWhat do you suggest?DIRECTORContinue to do whatever you do, and hope it
                  gives you a great deal of satisfaction.

     Crushed, Lionel retreats behind the curtain.16   EXT.   BUCKINGHAM PALACE - NEW EVENING                         16Cold and austere mausoleum illuminated by floodlights.

     On the parade ground, Grenadier Guards in red coats and black
     bearskin busbies drill stiffly like toy soldiers. Viewing stands
     are beginning to fill.

     The King's voice is heard:KING GEORGE V (O.S.)Stride boldly up to the bloody thing, stare
                  it square in the eye, and talk to it as you
                  would to any decent Englishman.17   INT. THE KING'S STUDY, BUCKINGHAM PALACE - EVENING             17The King's study resembles a naval captain's cabin. Both men
     are uniformed for a state occasion. Bertie regards the BBC
     microphone as though it were an alien.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    15.BERTIEI d-d-don't thu-thu-think I c-c-can.

In the presence of his father, Bertie's stuttering returns in
full form, his breathing short and shallow, the muscles in
spasms.KING GEORGE VShow who's in command. If you don't, this
            devilish device will change everything.
            Used to be, all a King had to do was look
            reasonable in uniform and not fall off his
            horse. Now we must creep cap in hand into
            people's homes that smell of boiled
            cabbage, and speak nicely to them. We're
            reduced to that lowest, basest of all
            creatures...we've become...actors! Don't
            give me a look of defeated pathos. This is
            a family crisis!BERTIEFather, we're not a family, we're a firm.

His father shoots Bertie a surprised look.   Does the lad have a
brain after all?KING GEORGE VWe're the oldest, most successful,
            corporation in the world and sitting on
            thrones is our business! But any moment now
            we may be out of work. Your brother came to
            me the other day, livid a certain lady has
            been refused an invitation to my Silver
            Jubilee. I pointed out she wasn't a lady
            and most definitely wasn't his wife.BERTIEWhat did David say?KING GEORGE VShe made him sublimely happy. I said: that
            was probably because she was sleeping with
            him. "I give you my word we've never had
            immoral relations." "As my son, as Prince
            of Wales, as my heir, do you solemnly swear
            your friendship with this woman is an
            absolutely clean one?" "I do", he said.
            "Look me in the eye," I said. "On my
            honour" he said. Stared straight at his
            father... and lied.BERTIEOh my brother...
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    16.KING GEORGE VWhen I'm dead that boy will ruin himself,
             this family, and this nation, within twelve
             months. Who'll pick up the pieces? David's
             friend, Oswald Mosley? His black-shirt
             British Union of Fascists are marching
             through London. Hitler terrorizing half of
             Europe, Stalin the other half. Who'll stand
             between us, the jackboots, and the
             proletarian abyss? You?

A red light attached to the mike begins a series of warning
blinks.BERTIEWhat're you going to say?KING GEORGE VThe usual guff. The Archbishop writes it.
             My people love to hear me say it. Spoken
             fluently, of course.

They're interrupted by the entrance of the BBC News Reader and
Technicians.KING GEORGE V (CONT'D)That's the chap who taught me how to use
             this contraption. You touch your chin with
             your thumb and the `thing' with the end of
             your little finger. Splendid fellow.

SQUISH.   Assisted by the Technicians, the News Reader sprays his
throat.BBC NEWS READERGood evening, ladies and gentlemen, this is
             the BBC, broadcasting direct from
             Buckingham Palace upon the occasion of the
             Royal Silver Jubilee. His Majesty: King
             George the Fifth.KING GEORGE V(to the mike)
             "I can only say to you, my very very dear
             people, that the Queen and I thank you from
             the depths of our hearts for all the
             loyalty and - may I say so? - the love with
             which this day and always you have
             surrounded us. I dedicate myself anew to
             your service for all the years that may
             still be given to me."

The News Reader, terribly moved, whispers to his Technicians:
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                       17.BBC NEWS READERThat's how a King speaks.
                      (adds with splendid false
                       modesty)
                  I showed HM how to do it.18   EXT.   BUCKINGHAM PALACE - NIGHT                                18The edge of the crowd is visible. One can sense a vast sea of
     humanity. When the glass doors of the upper balcony open the
     murmur becomes a ROAR. When the King steps out, it becomes
     tumultuous.19   EXT.   BALCONY, BUCKINGHAM PALACE - CONTINUOUS                  19The King is joined by Queen Mary and the Archbishop of
     Canterbury, other Royals, and dignitaries. The noise is
     deafening. The King beckons impatiently for someone still
     inside to join them. It's Bertie, with Elizabeth.BERTIEThey didn't come to see us, Father.KING GEORGE VPretend.BERTIEWhere's David?KING GEORGE VBedding his American whore. Come, join the
                  fun!
                       (aside to Elizabeth)
                  You'll have to do a lot more of this. I'm
                  sending him to the Midlands. With all the
                  factory noise they won't hear a word he
                  says.

     The King goes back to waving.   Elizabeth is stunned at the
     prospect.

     The ROAR of the crowd segues into the ROAR of machinery.20   INT.   MIDLAND FACTORY - NEW DAY                                20Huge industrial wheels whir in neutral. WORKERS are lined up
     dutifully to hear the visiting Royal. Bertie's lips move, but
     with the noise he cannot be heard. Elizabeth watches in relief.

     Then a FOREMAN, trying to be helpful, signals.     The machinery
     halts, the factory falls silent.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     18.


     At first the momentum of speaking without being heard carries
     Bertie forward.BERTIEWhat's needed is cooperation...

     Hearing his own voice reverberate through the cavernous factory
     brings Bertie's stutter back in full form.BERTIE (CONT'D)...buh-buh-between the cuh-cuh-classses...

     One of the workers sullenly pulls a chain, releasing a blast
     from a steam whistle that drowns Bertie out.21   EXT.   AUSTIN PRINCESS DRIVING THRU HYDE PARK - NEW DAY        21THE ROYAL STANDARD fluttering.22   INT.   AUSTIN PRINCESS - DAY                                   22Elizabeth and Bertie in the back.BERTIEIs this necessary?ELIZABETHYou know perfectly well.

     As they pass a corner news stand, the headline chalkboard reads:PRINCE OF WALES TELLS MINERS "SOMETHING MUST BE DONE!"ELIZABETH (CONT'D)Neglects to tell them what must be done,
                  how its to be done, and who's to do it.BERTIEDavid has `the touch'. They adore him.

     As the Austin halts for lights, people stare to see who's
     inside. Some point.BERTIE (CONT'D)I'll wager they're saying: There's the
                  useless one who can't speak.23   INT. LOGUE'S WAITING ROOM - DAY                                23Bertie and Elizabeth enter. She explains in a whisper:
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   19.ELIZABETHThere's no receptionist.

Elizabeth glances nervously at the lavatory door.ELIZABETH (CONT'D)(loudly)
            The Johnsons.

From the inner office.LIONEL (O.S.)Not finished yet.

Elizabeth is relieved its not coming from the lav.BERTIEHow'd you find this physician?ELIZABETH(poker-faced)
            Classifieds; next to "Saucy model,
            Shepherd's Market".

Bertie smiles despite his mood.ELIZABETH (CONT'D)Comes highly recommended. Charges
            substantial fees in order to help the poor.
                (realizes)
            Oh dear, perhaps he's a Bolshevik?!BERTIEI'm not sure I want to see this fellow.ELIZABETHI'm not sure he wants to see you.

The consultation room door opens and a working class young woman
- ANNA - comes out; then realizes with a gasp who they are. She
retreats rapidly back into the consulting room.ELIZABETH (CONT'D)Perhaps this was a mistake.

After an uncomfortable moment, Anna returns, attempting to be
properly formal, and stutters:ANNAYou can go in now, "Mr. Johnson".BERTIEI'm not actually Mr ...
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   20.ANNA(whispers, terrified)
                 I know.
                     (then to Elizabeth)
                 Dr Logue says...LIONEL (O.S.)Lionel!ANNALionel says...wait here if you wish. Or, it
                 being a pleasant day, take a stroll.
                     (to the consultation room)
                 Was that alright?LIONEL (O.S.)Bloody marvellous.ANNA(choking up)
                 Thank you...Lionel.

     Anna flees quickly.LIONEL (O.S.)Mr. Johnson, do come in.

     The Yorks look at each other.24   INT. LOGUE'S CONSULTATION ROOM - DAY                        24A totally different universe from the Spartan waiting area. A
     world of books - piles of them spilling everywhere. Two
     slightly shabby, but comfortable armchairs. Well-worn Turkish
     rug. Hotplate and two chipped mugs. Model airplanes hanging
     from the ceiling. Recording apparatus. The walls are pearl grey
     and smoky blue.BERTIEMy wife's favorite colours.

     Here, in a doctor's office, Bertie's stutter returns.LIONELGlad we have something in common.

     Bertie's head bangs into one of the models.LIONEL (CONT'D)My lads build them. Make yourself
                 comfortable.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    21.BERTIEPlease...LIONELWhat?BERTIEYou're too close. Five paces is the rule of
             thumb.LIONELThat might be difficult in this office.

Bertie perches uneasily on the edge of an armchair.LIONEL (CONT'D)Nice girl, Anna. Worried she wouldn't find
             a husband if she couldn't speak. Tried to
             convince her men will find her even more
             attractive as a silent partner. The perfect
             woman. Sorry, bad Australian joke. Why'd
             your wife change her mind and ask for an
             appointment?BERTIEI can't discuss that.LIONELWhat can we talk about?BERTIEThat's better. When speaking with a Royal
             one waits for the Royal to start the
             conversation and chose the topic.LIONELYour joking. That won't work here.BERTIEI admit if one waits for me to start a
             conversation one can wait a rather long
             time.

Silence.   They stare at each other.BERTIE (CONT'D)You call this making me comfortable?LIONELYou call this being forthcoming?BERTIEAren't you interested in treating me?
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   22.LIONELOnly if you're interested in being cured.

More silence.LIONEL (CONT'D)Cuppa tea?BERTIENo thank you.LIONELI need one.

Turns on the hot plate.LIONEL (CONT'D)Any idea what you're letting yourself in
            for?BERTIEApparently a great deal of rudeness, Doctor
            Logue.LIONELCall me Lionel.BERTIEI prefer Doctor.LIONELI prefer Lionel. My family calls me far
            worse. What shall I call you?BERTIEThe Duke of York is appropriate.LIONELOh please.BERTIEYour Royal Highness then.LIONELMuch more informal.BERTIEPrince Albert? Or Frederick? Arthur?
            George? I've lots of names to choose from.LIONELHow about Bertie?
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   23.BERTIE(flushes)
            Only my family uses that.LIONELThat's what I'll call you then. We must be
            true equals.BERTIEIf we were equal I wouldn't be here, I'd be
            at home with my family and no-one would
            give a damn.

Bertie starts to light a cigarette from a silver case.LIONELDon't do that.

Bertie gives him an astonished look.LIONEL (CONT'D)Sucking smoke into your lungs will kill
            you.BERTIEMy physicians say it's good for stuttering,
            relaxes the throat.LIONELThey're idiots.BERTIEThey've all been knighted.LIONELMakes it official then. House rules: no
            smoking.BERTIEI thought here we're "equal".LIONELAs a monarchist I thought you'd appreciate
            these are my digs and here I rule. No
            smoking. What was your earliest memory?BERTIEI beg your pardon?LIONELFirst recollection of the world?
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     24.BERTIE(stutter growing in
                 intensity)
            I'm not here to discuss personal matters.LIONELWhy're you here then?BERTIE(exploding)
            Because I bloody well stutter! And you
            bloody well can't fix it!!!LIONELTemper.BERTIEOne of my numerous faults.LIONELDo you stutter when you think?BERTIEDon't be ridiculous.LIONELOne of my many faults. How about when you
            talk to yourself?BERTIEI don't talk to myself!LIONELCome on, everyone natters to themselves
            once in a while, Bertie.BERTIEStop calling me that!LIONELShan't call you anything else.BERTIEThen we shan't speak!

Silence. The jug has boiled.    Lionel makes himself a cup of tea.BERTIE (CONT'D)Must I pay for this?LIONELLoads. Now: when you talk to yourself, do
            you stutter?
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   25.BERTIEOf course not!LIONELProving your impediment isn't a permanent
            internal fixture.BERTIEWhen I give a speech...I bloody stutter!!!LIONELBet you a bob you can read flawlessly,
            right here, right now.BERTIE(bitterly)
            Easy money. You're on.LIONELSee your shilling then.BERTIERoyals don't carry money.LIONELHow convenient.

Logue fishes a coin from his pocket and puts it on the table.LIONEL (CONT'D)I'll stake you. Pay me back next time.BERTIEIf there is a next time.LIONELCorrect, I haven't agreed to take you on.

During this, Logue has uncovered a piece of apparatus, a
recording device with earphones. He sets a blank disc onto the
turntable and positions a microphone, then hands Bertie an open
book. Bertie glares at it defiantly.BERTIEI certainly can't read The Bard.LIONEL`Easy money'.

Bertie reads, stuttering badly and getting worse.BERTIE"To be or not to be, That is the question.
            Whether it is wiser..." There!
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     26.


Reaches for the coin.LIONELNot so fast.BERTIEI proved I can't read.LIONELYou proved you can't listen.

Hands Bertie a pair of heavily padded earphones.    Bertie doesn't
want to take them.LIONEL (CONT'D)A princely bob is at stake.

Bertie reluctantly puts on the earphones. Logue turns a dial.
LOUD MUSIC is heard. Bertie takes off the earphones. The music
stops.BERTIEYou're playing music.LIONELI'm aware.BERTIEHow can I hear what I'm saying?!LIONELBertie, you're Royal. Surely a prince's
            brain knows what its mouth is doing?BERTIEYou're not well acquainted with Royal
            princes, are you?LIONELI want to demonstrate that when you can't
            hear your voice, you don't stutter, thus
            proving your impediment is not innate.BERTIERubbish.

Bertie replaces the earphones. Again, the LOUD MUSIC. His lips
move as he reads, but all that can be heard is the music.
Finished reading the passage he takes off the earphones and the
music ceases. He reaches for the coin, but Logue snatches it.BERTIE (CONT'D)I was terrible.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   27.LIONELFlawless.BERTIEI know how I sound!LIONELWould I lie to a prince of the realm to win
                 twelve-pence?BERTIEI've no idea what an Australian might do
                 for that sort of money.

     Logue puts the record in a brown paper dust jacket and hands it
     to Bertie.LIONELSouvenir of our first and presumably last
                 encounter.

     Bertie glances at the record.

     POV - the label: HMV His Master's Voice.25   INT. WAITING ROOM - DAY                                        25Elizabeth, trying to be gracious, has been cooling her heels
     with a working class MOTHER and her young son WILLIE.LIONELI'm finished with your husband.BERTIEI'm finished with Doctor Logue!LIONELLionel.

     They exit curtly.WILLIE'S MUMWas that...?LIONELCertainly not. How's it going, mate?WILLIE'S MUMWilliam isn't trying hard enough.LIONELWillie?
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                      28.WILLIEDdddddoooing ggggggggood.LIONELWhy am I not surprised?26   INT./EXT. AUSTIN PRINCESS ON LONDON STREET - DAY               26The Yorks are being driven home. As they pass Speakers' Corner,
     Oswald Mosley's blackshirt British Union of Fascists are out in
     full force.BERTIEThe bloody man did parlour tricks and
                  cheated me out of a shilling.

     In fury he rolls down the window and is about to throw away the
     record. Elizabeth stops him.ELIZABETHThey'll see.

     He quickly rolls up the window.

     The sound of an approaching aircraft engine.27   EXT.   PRIVATE LANDING STRIP, SANDRINGHAM ESTATE - NEW DAY     27A grass strip cut into the moors. Bertie waits beside a shooting
     break, the stiff breeze whipping his coat, as a small plane
     lands and taxis. The cockpit canopy slides back and the pilot
     leaps out, removing his leather helmet and goggles, revealing
     hair gleaming like gold, perfect teeth flashing a dentist's
     smile. This is - DAVID - the Prince of Wales, Prince Charming,
     the media's darling, a sun god descended from the skies
     accustomed to being worshipped by all.DAVID(teasing with a false
                       stutter)
                  Hello, B-b-bertie. B-b-been waiting long?BERTIEThree days. Where've you been?

     Bertie stutters badly in the presence of his brother.DAVIDI was busy.BERTIESo was I. Elizabeth has pneumonia.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     29.DAVIDShe'll recover.

     Bertie shoots him a look.BERTIEFather won't.28   INT./EXT. SHOOTING BREAK ON SANDRINGHAM LANE - CONTINUOUS      28David drives.   Badly.DAVIDHe's doing this on purpose.BERTIEDying?!DAVIDSome sod tipped him off Wallis is getting a
                  quickie divorce and we're going to make our
                  marriage a fait accompli. As an act of pure
                  spite, Father's trying to depart
                  prematurely in order to complicate matters.

     The break almost careens off the lane.BERTIEYou believe that?DAVIDWallis explained it. She's terribly clever.29   INT.   KING'S BEDROOM, SANDRINGHAM - DAY                       29The King is propped up in bed, wrapped in his favorite faded
     Tibetan dressing gown, hooked to an oxygen tank. He's
     surrounded by his wife, Queen Mary, his two eldest sons, his
     Secretary - CLIVE WIGRAM - his personal physician - DR DAWSON,
     and a NURSE.

     Wigram presents a tray with papers and pen.WIGRAMThe Instruments Of Succession, Your
                  Majesty.

     The King is so feeble he can barely make his mark. Glares at
     David.KING GEORGE VYou're next? God help us.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                      30.


     He waves them out of the room, but beckons Wigram to come close,
     and whispers something in his ear.WIGRAMAt the appropriate moment, Your Majesty.

     The King nods.30   INT.   DINING HALL, SANDRINGHAM - NIGHT                        30Clear soup is being served at the immense table.    Places set for
     five, but only Bertie and his mother are seated.    The clinking
     of silver and china. Finally:QUEEN MARYI want my jewelry divided equally.
                  Elizabeth gets first choice. She's not
                  greedy.BERTIEMay I remind you, you're not the one who's
                  dying, Mother.QUEEN MARYWhere are the others?BERTIELord Wigram and Dr Dawson are making
                  arrangements.QUEEN MARYWhat sort of arrangements?BERTIEThey didn't say.QUEEN MARYAnd David? Fetch him.31   INT.   LIBRARY, SANDRINGHAM - CONTINUOUS                       31David, hunched over a table, appears to be sobbing.     He doesn't
     hear Bertie's discreet knock.

     Seeing his brother crying, Bertie is deeply moved, puts a
     comforting hand on his shoulder. David pulls away as though
     touched by a leper and covers the receiver in his hand.DAVIDI'm on with Wallis!
                      (as though Bertie didn't
                       exist)(MORE)TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    31.DAVID (CONT'D)I know, darling, a talk, even a lovely long
                  talk, is a poor substitute for holding
                  tight and making drowsy. Nor making our own
                  drowsies either, as we've had to do far too
                  often lately.
                      (kisses the phone)
                  Til then, sweet love.
                      (hangs up)
                  Wally misses me terriblyBERTIEMother says you're late for supper.

     David glares at a clock.DAVIDClocks set five minutes in advance, so as
                  not to be late. When I'm King I shall set
                  them back!32   INT.   DINING HALL, SANDRINGHAM - CONTINUOUS                  32Bertie and David enter to find Wigram and Dawson with their
     mother.QUEEN MARYLord Wigram has requested permission to
                  order the coffin.

     Nobody wants to take responsibility. The Queen looks to David.
     He nods. They're interrupted by a BUTLER.BULTERThe Archbishop of Canterbury.DAVIDWho the hell invited him?!QUEEN MARYNobody. Don't swear.DAVIDSomebody should bloody well dis-invite him.
                  Father swears.WIGRAMThat would be rash.QUEEN MARYYou're not your father.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    32.WIGRAMHis Grace can be a persistent enemy. We
                   need friends.

     David knows he's referring to the Simpson affair.DAVIDShow the toad in.

     Lang is already sweeping towards them.COSMO LANGWhatever can I contribute in this dreadful
                   hour?!33   INT.   LIBRARY, SANDRINGHAM - LATER                           33The men are huddled, with cigars and port, composing a news
     release. Bertie acts as secretary.COSMO LANG"Tranquilly"? "Serenely"?WIGRAMPeacefully.

     The others nod.COSMO LANG"The King's life is moving peacefully to
                   its..." "Termination"?WIGRAMClose.COSMO LANG"...to its close."WIGRAMAs a man of letters you're heaven-sent to
                   assist in the editing of our press
                   communique.

     Lang beams.WIGRAM (CONT'D)I'll telephone this through to the BBC and
                   alert The Times to hold the morning
                   edition. The problem is...if we're to keep
                   to schedule...time is running out.

     The clock is approaching midnight.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    33.DAVIDIs my father late for death?WIGRAMWe wouldn't want the news delivered by the
                  disreputable afternoon press, would we?

     The brothers look at him. He expains:COSMO LANGWho knows what sensational side issues
                  those tabloids might report.DAWSONPerhaps a peaceful termination?

     All eyes on David.34   INT.   KING'S BEDROOM, SANDRINGHAM - NIGHT                     34The nurse looks aghast as Dr Dawson administers an injection.DAWSONThree quarters of a gram of morphia and a
                  gram of cocaine injected into the distended
                  jugular vein.NURSENo! that's...DAWSONYou may leave.

     She does so, sobbing.

     Everyone watches silently as the King's breathing slows, the
     twitching jugular subsides, then all movement ceases.

     Dawson takes the pulse, and consults his watch.

     David sets the hand of the room's big clock back by five
     minutes.DAWSON (CONT'D)Time of expiration, 11:55 pm. On schedule.

     Queen Mary curtsies in homage to the new King, taking her eldest
     son's hand and kissing it. When she looks up...her eyes are
     chilling.QUEEN MARYLong live the King.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    34.35   INT. BERTIE'S STUDY - NIGHT                                  35Bertie, in despair and grief, has been describing to Elizabeth
     what happened.BERTIEThe look in mother's eyes, it
                 was...ghastly.

     He notices something on his desk, the record Logue made.

     POV: the label - His Master's Voice - stares up at him.

     He releases his emotions in an outburst of anger.BERTIE (CONT'D)What's this bloody thing doing here?!ELIZABETHBertie...BERTIEThe man was a total fraud!

     He picks up the record and is about to smash it against the edge
     of his desk, then realizes the mess that would make and tosses
     it into a waste paper basket. Then changes his mind.BERTIE (CONT'D)Would you like to hear?ELIZABETHNot particularly.BERTIEWell   I think you should. You should know
                 what   goes on. Telling me he could help me
                 read   flawlessly. Lying bastard! Listen to
                 this   babble!

     Bertie takes the record from the trash and walks to a Victrola
     stand, lifts the arm, places the steel needle, expecting to hear
     his stuttering voice. Instead, what he hears is flawless and
     flowing:BERTIE'S RECORDED VOICE"To be, or not to be, - that is the
                 question: -
                 Whether `tis nobler in the mind to suffer
                 The slings and arrows of outrageous
                 fortune,
                 Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
                 And by opposing end them?"
                     (the needle sticks)(MORE)TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     35.BERTIE'S RECORDED VOICE (CONT'D)"...sea of troubles, and by opposing end
                  them? And by opposing end them? And by
                  opposing..."

     Bertie lifts the needle. He and his wife stare at each other;
     there are tears in her eyes.

     The ROAR OF A HUGE delirious crowd is heard, growing in volume.
     The roar becomes chillingly recognizable: "Zeig Heil! Zeig Heil!
     Zeig Heil!"GO TO BLACK:Hitler, giving one of his mass rally speeches, continues.

     The brass numbers 10 appears on the blackness.   It is:36   EXT.   10 DOWNING STREET - NEW NIGHT                            36The black front door of the Prime Minister's residence. The
     Fuhrer's tirade continues as CAMERA moves through the door into
     10 Downing Street itself.37   INT.   10 DOWNING STREET - CONTINUOUS                           37CAMERA explores the dwelling, during which Hitler grows louder
     and more shrill, until:38   INT.   BALDWIN'S STUDY - CONTINUOUS                             38The glowing light of an illuminated dial of a radio, listened to
     by Churchill and Baldwin. They wear black armbands.WINSTON CHURCHILLTurn that devil off!

     The hysteria stops.WINSTON CHURCHILL (CONT'D)If only one could do that so easily in real
                  life.BALDWINChamberlain thinks that Hitler can be
                  reasoned with.WINSTON CHURCHILLNeville is an old woman.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   36.BALDWINThat's the direction its going, Winston.
                  You're out of step.WINSTON CHURCHILLWe'll see who trips and falls.BALDWINEnough pleasantries. I've asked you here
                  because you seem to be the only sensible
                  member of the King's camp.WINSTON CHURCHILLNice of you to say so, Stanley.BALDWINIs he willing to be reasonable?WINSTON CHURCHILLDepends on the definition.BALDWIN(bluntly)
                  Has he seen the light?WINSTON CHURCHILLHe has.

     Baldwin brightens.WINSTON CHURCHILL (CONT'D)Our Monarch basks in the warming rays of a
                  celestial orb. Her name is Wally.

     Baldwin's face clouds once again.39   INT.   LOGUE'S CONSULTATION ROOM - NEW DAY                  39A headline screams: HITLER RATTLES SABRE.

     Lionel is at his desk reading the newspaper as his sons sprawl
     on the floor building a model airplane.VALENTINEDad?LIONELMmmm?VALENTINETime for a Shake, dad.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     37.LIONEL(pleased)
                  You sure?THE BOYSShake! Shake! Shake!

     Clearly this is a much loved ritual. Lionel disappears into a
     closet.IANBet its the Scottish Play.VALENTINEOthello!PETERPerhaps something with Falstaff?

     Ominous thumps within the closet.LIONEL (FROM INSIDE THE CLOSET)"Art thou afeard?"THE BOYSCaliban!

     Lionel lumbers out of the closet, a pillow stuffed into his
     jacket to create a monstrous hunchback. His acting, performed
     just for his children, is quite magical.LIONEL"Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises,
                  Sounds and sweet airs, that give delight,
                  and hurt not. Sometimes a thousand twanging
                  instruments
                  Will hum about mine ears; and sometimes
                  voices,
                  That, if then I had waked after long sleep,
                  Will make me sleep again: and then, in
                  dreaming,
                  The clouds methought would open, and show
                  riches
                  Ready to drop upon me; that, when I waked,
                  I cried to dream again."

     The lads are enthralled. The DOOR BELL RINGS. Lionel is not
     expecting anyone.40   EXT.   ENTRANCE TO LOGUE'S CHAMBERS, HARLEY STREET - DAY      40The Austin Princess waits at the curb.    Bertie is at the door.
     He rings the BELL again.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   38.BERTIE'S VOICEDoctor Logue?41   INT.   LOGUE'S CONSULTATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS               41Lionel is stunned, covers:LIONELMust be a tradesman. Off you go, lads. Mum
                  should be home from work.

     The boys gather their things, deposit the model plane on a
     chair, stow the building materials in a box, and exit the back
     way. Lionel goes to the door, but doesn't open it.BERTIE'S VOICELogue...?

     Logue, expressionless, doesn't respond.42   EXT.   ENTRANCE TO LOGUE'S CHAMBERS - CONTINUOUS            42Bertie is torn: part of him wants to flee, yet he desperately
     needs to be let in. He knows what must be done. This is a huge
     step for him.BERTIELionel...it's Bertie.

     The door opens.LIONELMy condolences. I didn't expect you.BERTIEThank you. I didn't expect to be here. May
                  I come in?LIONELNo.BERTIEWhat?LIONELMy wife doesn't think it's a good idea.BERTIEYour wife?LIONELMyrtle.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     39.BERTIEMyrtle? Myrtle's never met me. I've never
                   met Myrtle. May we discuss Myrtle in
                   private? Its not proper talking about our
                   women on the street.

     Lonel gives him a look, but lets him him.43   INT.   WAITING ROOM TO LOGUE'S CHAMBERS - CONTINUOUS          43As they enter Bertie notices:BERTIEWhat happened to your shoulder?

     Lionel hastily removes the pillow, tosses it away.LIONELSore back.BERTIEWhat's your Myrtle got to do with me?
                   Elizabeth doesn't much care for you either,
                   but here I am.LIONELThat woman has style.BERTIEWhich is why she dislikes you. You're far
                   too familiar.
                       (referring to the
                        consultation room)
                   May we discuss this properly?44   INT.   LOGUE'S CONSULTATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS                 44They enter:LIONELYou look dreadful.BERTIEAnother example of exactly the sort of
                   thing you don't say to a Royal. And you're
                   too close.LIONELBut you're not Royal in this room.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    40.BERTIEWhich is precisely why Elizabeth dislikes
             you.

He starts to sit.LIONELNot there!

CRUNCH.   A model airplane was nestling in the armchair.LIONEL (CONT'D)Curtis bi-plane, now a Curtis mono-wing.BERTIEOh I say, I'm terribly sorry. Tell your
             lads I'll buy a new one.

Lionel takes out the box of model building gear the boys left.LIONELYou don't have any money. I'll fix it. So,
             Bertie, what brings you here? Your father's
             death?

Bertie is silent.LIONEL (CONT'D)Mine lay rigid, fists clenched angrily at
             his sides, daring the Reaper: take me, you
             bastard!BERTIEWhat was he angry about?LIONELI was a great disappointment.BERTIEThought he'd be proud of you.LIONELSo did I.BERTIEA man of stature?LIONELA clerk.BERTIEOh.
                   (pause)(MORE)TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   41.BERTIE (CONT'D)I was informed, after the fact, my father's
            last words were: "Bertie has more guts than
            the rest of his brothers put together."
                (pause)
            Couldn't say that to my face.
                (then)
            Your mother?LIONELCoughed herself to death when I was young.BERTIEOh.LIONELI remember going to the theatre with her.
            Not real theatre...traveling players.BERTIEI've been to Australia.LIONELNot where I lived.BERTIE(blurts)
            My brother. That's why I'm here.LIONELWhat's he done?BERTIECan't say.LIONELI'm going home now.BERTIEYou must undersand, I can't puh-puh-puh...

His jaw and throat muscles constrict.LIONELTry singing it.BERTIEPardon?LIONELKnow any songs?BERTIE"Swanee River".
TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                  42.LIONELVery modern.BERTIEHappens to be my favorite.LIONELSing it.BERTIECertainly not.
             (fascinated by the plane
              repairs)
         May I help? Always wanted to build models.
         Father wouldn't allow it. I had to collect
         stamps. He collected stamps.LIONELOnly if you sing. Goes like this...
             (sings)
         "Way down upon the..."BERTIEI know the words!
             (sings)
         "Way down upon the Swanee River. ..."
         Etcetera.LIONELYou didn't stutter.BERTIEOf course I didn't stutter, I was singing!
         One doesn't stutter when one sings!
             (realises) )
         Oh...
             (then)
         Well I can't waltz around on State
         occasions warbling!LIONELYou can with me.BERTIEThat's because you're peculiar.LIONELI take that as a compliment. Cut some
         struts from the balsa. Sorry, hard to show
         you what to do at five paces. Would you
         like a cup of tea?BERTIENo. Yes. Thank you.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    43.


Lionel fires up the hot plate.LIONELYou were about to sing an aria concerning
            your brother.BERTIEI'm not crooning to the tune of "Swanee
            River!"LIONELTry "Camptown Races" then.
                (sings)
            "The Arch of C, he said to me, doo-dah doo-
            dah..." That sort of thing.BERTIEI can't talk, or sing, about your future
            King, doo-dah, doo-dah...LIONELMy future King? He's your future King too.
            Did that cause friction? Knowing he'd grow
            up to be King, but you wouldn't.BERTIECertainly not. I've always looked up to
            David. Water's boiling.

Lionel makes the pot.LIONELTwo lumps or one?

Bertie, a bit abashed, holds up three fingers.BERTIEI've a sweet tooth. To tell the truth...LIONELAlways preferable.
                (referring to plane wing)
            Cover it with tissue.BERTIE...it was a relief. Knowing I wouldn't be
            King.LIONELWhy's that?

Lionel hands him a mug of tea.   Bertie realizes it's chipped and
possibly none too clean.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   44.BERTIEI wouldn't have to give speeches!

Reaches into his jacket for his cigarette case.LIONELNo smoking. What's the age difference?

While Logue isn't looking, Bertie surreptitiously wipes the rim
of the mug with his handkerchief.BERTIEEighteen months.LIONELBut for eighteen months you would've been
            King?!BERTIEWe didn't think about it that way, doctor.
                (sings)
            Doo-dah doo-dah.
                (then)
            David and I were very close.LIONELAs you said: eighteen months.BERTIEAs brothers!LIONELHow close?BERTIEYoung bucks... You know.LIONELI don't, or I wouldn't ask. Did you go
            after the same girls?BERTIEUpon occasion.LIONELPrincess Elizabeth?BERTIE(flares)
            What an extraordinarily rude thing to say!
                (quickly under control)
            David did try to be her beau at one point.
            Before I met her. She wouldn't have him.(MORE)TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   45.BERTIE (CONT'D)Not like my father...he and his brother,
            when they were young, kept a girl in St
            John's Wood and shared her on alternate
            nights.

An uncomfortable silence.   Too much has been said.LIONELNow dope the other wing. Did David tease
            you?BERTIEThey all did. "Buh-buh-buh-Bertie". Father
            encouraged it. "Spit it out, boy!" Thought
            it would make me stop. Is this necessary?!LIONELOtherwise the paint will eat through the
            tissue.BERTIEI mean the damn questions!LIONELMandatory. Tell me more about your
            storybook childhood. What was your earliest
            memory?BERTIEYou asked that before.LIONELThis time I'd like an answer.BERTIEBeing born.LIONELHow can you remember that?BERTIEDecember 14th.LIONELI don't understand.BERTIE"Mausoleum Day". Prince Albert departed on
            that date. I was named Bertie to placate
            Great Grandmamma Victoria. In return, she
            hated me because it reminded her of her
            grief.
                (stutter growing in
                 intensity)(MORE)TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   46.BERTIE (CONT'D)Let's stick to medical history please. I'm
            naturally left handed, which was considered
            inappropriate.LIONELAnd?BERTIEI was punished. Now I'm right handed.LIONELAnything else?BERTIEBandy legs. Also considered inappropriate.

Lionel waits.BERTIE (CONT'D)Metal splints were made...worn night and
            day...very painful. Now I have straight
            legs. This is so...tawdry! I need your
            services as a Speech Therapist, not Grand
            Inquisitor. Are you available? Or will it
            be: "Myrtle says no?"LIONELYou sound angry.BERTIEYes, I told you, I have a temper.LIONELAngry at me, or at your brother?

Bertie remains stubbornly silent.    Then blurts:BERTIEHe's fallen in love!LIONELHow dreadful.BERTIEWith the wrong sort of woman!LIONELWhat's wrong with her?BERTIEShe's American.LIONELSome of them must be lovable.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   47.BERTIEThis one's divorced. Twice. Mrs Wallis
            Simpson of Baltimore. I want David to be
            happy, but the family, the Church, the
            nation, won't have it.LIONELCan't they fornicate privately like adults?BERTIEIf only! David used to prefer married women
            because there was no possible attachment.
            But now...LIONEL"Queen Wallis of Baltimore"?BERTIEPlease.LIONELDoes sound a bit iffy.BERTIEI made a smudge!LIONELTouch it up.BERTIEYou want me to beg for help?LIONELI advise you never to beg. Especially if
            you might be King.BERTIEDon't say that!LIONELI see. For reasons you cannot disclose,
            fearing ramifications you will not explain,
            you feel sufficiently anxious to embark
            upon a course of therapy in which you have
            no faith? You already owe me a shilling.

Bertie takes a coin out of his pocket, hesitates, then offers it
to Logue.BERTIEI brought it along. You won, fair and
            square. I'll pay you generously.

Lionel pockets the coin.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   48.LIONELI'll continue to ask questions.BERTIEThat's what I was afraid of.LIONEL(admires the plane)
            Nice job.

Bertie sees Lionel glance at his watch.BERTIEYou've someone waiting?LIONELI do now.BERTIEI'd apologize to them in person, but...LIONELYou don't wish to be seen? Slip out the
            back way.BERTIEAfter the funeral...it may be even more
            difficult. To remain unobserved.LIONELYou're having second thoughts.

Bertie's silence is confirmation.LIONEL (CONT'D)I ask too many questions?BERTIEPerhaps the wrong sort.LIONEL(writes an address)
            We live in South Kensington, small
            apartment, but no one would see you.
                (added incentive)
            Lots of planes.BERTIEYou know, Lionel, you're the first ordinary
            Englishman...LIONELAustralian.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                          49.BERTIE...I've ever really talked to. Sometimes,
                   when I ride through the streets and see a
                   `bloke' I'm struck by how little I know of
                   his life, and how little he knows of mine.
                   Cuts both ways.

     As Bertie is about to leave, Lionel requests casually:LIONELAnd if you decide to come, bring the
                   Duchess. She might be helpful.BERTIEShe might. If I asked. Very nicely.
                       (at back door)
                   And how will Myrtle take to our coming into
                   your home?LIONELNot sure. She isn't speaking to me.
                       (pause)
                   Wants to go home.
                       (pause)
                   After the funeral then?

     Bertie doesn't answer. Exits. Logue is left holding the plane.
     He goes to the waiting room door.LIONEL (CONT'D)How're you doing, Willie?WILLIE'S MUM(speaking for her son)
                   Still can't say a sentence.LIONELWillie?WILLIEIiiiiii'm much bbbbbbbetter.LIONELWell done.

     A drum roll is heard.      Thrum.   Another...   Thrum! Thrum!45   EXT.   ST. GEORGE'S CHAPEL, WINDSOR CASTLE - NEW DAY               45Funereal bagpipes wail, joining the measured drum-rolls.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     50.


On the balcony of the Castle, decorated with black bunting, is a
huge BBC microphone, and arrayed in front of it a row of
uniformed dignitaries wearing Naval hats of the Napoleonic Wars,
replete with ostrich feathers.

One of the dignitaries reads a declaration:DIGNITARYWhereas it has pleased Almighty God to call
            to His mercy our late Sovereign, King
            George the Fifth of blessed and glorious
            memory...

During this, INTERCUT to the REVERSE ANGLE, showing a massive
military parade, mainly Navy personnel, wending its way through
the main street of Windsor towards the Castle, accompanying a
gun carriage on which rides the King's coffin, draped with the
Royal standard, on which rests the Royal Crown topped by a
Maltese Cross.

David is seen - very serious.DIGNITARY (CONT'D)...that the High and Mighty Prince Edward
            Albert Christian George Andrew Patrick
            David is now become our only lawful King.

Canons are fired.

Startled by the salute, a large flock of blackbirds rise up and
streak across the wintery sky.

A MURMUR, then a shocked GASP, as the gun carriage transverses a
tram track and tilts precipitously. Suddenly the Royal Crown
tumbles and falls, knocking off the Maltese Cross.COSMO LANG (O.C.)Oh bloody Hell!WINSTON CHURCHILL (O.C.)A bad omen, Your Grace?

The Archbishop and Churchill are watching the events from the
shadows at one end of the balcony.

Below - a scramble to restore the Cross to the Crown, and
replace both atop the coffin.COSMO LANGDon't be disingenuous. For our late King's
            crown to fall from his coffin is not a
            fortuitous portent. What ever is going to
            happen next?
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   51.WINSTON CHURCHILLIs that be the motto of the new reign?
            Indeed, will there actually be "a new
            reign"?COSMO LANGWinston! I'm deeply shocked.WINSTON CHURCHILLYou don't look it.COSMO LANGMy function requires me to appear serene.WINSTON CHURCHILLThat may be increasingly difficult to
            maintain. I've been informed by no less an
            authority than the Prime Minister that our
            populace has no objection to Royal
            fornication, but will never tolerate
            adultery.COSMO LANGWell, since we cannot acquire a new
            populace, perhaps we need a new King?WINSTON CHURCHILLMy turn to be profoundly shocked.

Neither look the slightest traumatized.COSMO LANGScoff, Churchill! Go on... scoff! But you
            more than others know full well we'll soon
            be under siege from the forces of darkness.WINSTON CHURCHILLThe winds of war...a gathering storm?COSMO LANGOh, you do have a way with words. And who
            would you suggest to rally the troops, the
            nation, the Empire, the world?

INTERCUT to Bertie in the funeral cortege, looking frail and
pale.COSMO LANG (CONT'D)A man who cannot speak? In Nuremberg
            stadium, Herr Hitler mesmerizes millions,
            whilst the Duke of York cannot successfully
            order fish and chips.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     52.WINSTON CHURCHILLWould you prefer the next brother?

     INTERCUT to Henry, the Duke of Gloucester.WINSTON CHURCHILL (CONT'D)A bi-sexual former drug addict? The
                  unwashed moralistic populace will adore
                  that!COSMO LANGThe youngest, perhaps?

     INTERCUT to George, the Duke of Kent.WINSTON CHURCHILLNow there's dimness.COSMO LANGI must admit...unburdened with brain.WINSTON CHURCHILLThus we're left with David, the rightful
                  heir, who speaks beautifully, even if he
                  talks nonsense.

     Below, the coffin is entering the Chapel.WINSTON CHURCHILL (CONT'D)Come, let us bury one king, before we
                  attempt to bring another to his knees.

     They exit.46   EXT.   BUCKINGHAM PALACE - NEW DAY                            46Re-establishing shot.   The Royal standard flies bravely.47   INT. CONFERENCE ROOM, BUCKINGHAM PALACE - CONTINUOUS          47Bertie waits at a table with a group of immaculately attired
     courtiers and dignitaries. This is the Coronation Committee.
     The chair at the head of the table is empty, everyone waiting
     for its occupant.

     He finally arrives. David. He gestures for Bertie to come into
     the corridor, but deliberately leaves the door open so the
     committee can hear snatches of Bertie's ensuing humiliation.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   53.48   INT.   CORRIDOR, BUCKINGHAM PALACE - CONTINUOUS               48David has a habit of constantly fingering his tie.DAVIDHear you're taking elocution lessons, lad.BERTIEPardon?DAVIDDiction. Speechifying. That's the word
                  around Town.BERTIEMerely trying to overcome my dreadful
                  impediment...DAVID (OVER-RIDES)I'm the brother who speaks. Or do you wish
                  to have a go?BERTIEGood lord no! I hope to...DAVIDReplace me? Well...today's your chance.

     He thrusts a document into Bertie's hands, then pokes his head
     into the conference room.DAVID (CONT'D)My brother will read the Coronation Plans.BERTIE(whispers urgently)
                  I'm not prepared!DAVID(whispers back)
                  As a Boy Scout...and you are one, aren't
                  you, very much a Boy Scout...you must
                  always be prepared. Nice and loud, so
                  everyone can hear.

     Bertie looks at the pages, his throat constricts, his chest
     tightens and his hands begin to shake.BERTIEI...I...I thu-thu-think we should tuh-tuh-
                  table the document.

     He attempts to return it to David, but his brother won't accept.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                      54.DAVIDTell the others how Mrs Simpson is to be
                  accommodated in a special alcove above the
                  altar. Now I'll be off. See you at Balmoral
                  this weekend, Buh-buh-Bertie.

     In the room, they are appalled.

     Bertie stands frozen and shattered.49   INT/EXT. AUSTIN PRINCESS ON SOUTH KENSINGTON STREET - NEW DAY49The lion rampant flutters on the bonnet of the Austin. Inside,
     Bertie, wearing a black armband, gestures for the driver to
     stop. Pulling his homburg over his brow, Bertie wraps his scarf
     around the lower portion of his face. Then catches his
     reflection in the rearview mirror. Tells his driver:BERTIEWait down the road.50   EXT.   SOUTH KENSINGTON STREET - CONTINUOUS                    50Not wanting to draw attention to his destination, Bertie has
     disembarked several buildings away from Logue's address. He
     makes his way hurriedly.

     WACK. A soccer football hits him on the back.    He wheels
     around.

     The group of local lads look at him unabashed.LOCAL LADKick it `ere, aye, Guv?

     Bertie kicks it.   A fine high shot.LOCAL LAD (CONT'D)Nice one.

     They go back to their game.

     Bertie rings Logue's bell. A brief pause. Bertie glances
     nervously, hoping not to be recognized. Lionel opens the door.LIONELTo be honest, wasn't sure whether to expect
                  you.BERTIEI wasn't sure either.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   55.LIONELSomething happened?

     Bertie stares at his mentor. Nods.BERTIE(as they enter, referring
                       to his hat and scarf)
                  Do I look like a spy?LIONELWith a toothache.

     They disappear inside.51   INT. STAIRWELL, LOGUE'S FLAT - CONTINUOUS                   51Bertie has to pick his way through discarded toys and sporting
     equipment, explaining to Logue:BERTIEI was totally unable to speak.LIONELYou seldom stutter with me anymore.
                      (referring to the mess)
                  The boys are a bit untidy.BERTIEBecause you're paid to listen!LIONELLike a verbal geisha girl?52   INT.   LIVING AREA, LOGUE'S FLAT - CONTINUOUS               52Bertie looks around the cluttered, but pleasant room:
     comfortable furniture a bit battered by the boys, antimacassars
     to hide the wear spots on the arms, family photos everywhere,
     well-used Turkish rug on the floor.LIONELHome.BERTIEWhat more does a man need,eh?

     Lionel stares, unsure if he's being patronized.LIONELComing from a man who's lived all his life
                  in castles and palaces.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                  56.BERTIESomebody has to live in them.LIONELSomebody does.

     Ushers Bertie into his study.53   INT. LOGUE'S STUDY - NEW DAY                               53Bertie stands shattered, lost in his painful memory.BERTIEI couldn't say anything!LIONELYou could've refused. Don't you know any
                 rude words?BERTIEWhat a bloody stupid question! I just said
                 one. Bloody. Bloodybloodybloody!LIONELPerhaps a touch more vulgar?BERTIECertainly not.LIONELTo prove you know how.BERTIEBugger!LIONELA public school prig could do better.BERTIEWell bloody bugger to you, you beastly
                 bastard!LIONELHardly robust.BERTIEShit then. Shit, shit, shit!LIONELSee how defecation flows trippingly from
                 the tongue? You don't stutter when you
                 swear.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                 57.BERTIEBecause I'm angry!LIONELGet angry more often. Do you know the f-
            word?BERTIEFornication?LIONELOh Bertie...BERTIEFuck. Fuck, fuck, fuck!LIONELBravissimo! Now a resounding chorus of...BERTIEBloody, bloody. bloody! Shit, shit, shit!
            Bugger, bugger, bugger! Fuck, fuck, fuck!

A pounding on the wall.MYRTLE (O.S.)We have children...!BERTIE(whispers)
            This is your fault!LIONELSorry, pet! Won't happen again!MYRTLE (O.S.)I should hope not!BERTIEApologies, Mrs. Logue.LIONELFirst time I've heard you laugh.BERTIERoyals aren't allowed emotions in public.LIONELWhich explains a lot.

Bertie is in no mood to be provoked.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    58.BERTIEWhat do you want me to do, dammit!? Stage
            my next public appearance as an obscene
            operetta?!LIONELYour next public appearance should be very
            well rehearsed.

Without thinking, Lionel instinctively reaches out to pat Bertie
supportively on the shoulder.

Bertie pulls back in offended shock.   All the warning signals
instilled in him are going off.BERTIEDon't take liberties! You're a dangerous
            man, Logue. Who sent you?LIONELAnyone in mind?BERTIEThe lurking shadows. Courtiers and
            peers...the whole panoply of a class which
            once ruled the nation which once ruled the
            world, afraid of losing their last vestige
            of privilege if the monarchy is further
            debased.LIONELYour wife was the one who sought me out.BERTIEBecause, dear sweet deluded woman, she
            believes in me!LIONELBut you don't share her belief? Why come
            here?BERTIEI'm beginning to ask myself that very same
            question. Your sailing close to the edge,
            don't push me, Doctor Logue.LIONELLionel.BERTIEI came here because I was taught from
            childhood to serve a purpose, and that
            purpose is to serve. Duty is our sole
            justification for privilege.(MORE)TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   59.BERTIE (CONT'D)I came here because I was under the
            illusion you might help me perform that
            function!LIONELNot to worry. They say the King can do no
            wrong.BERTIEHe can bugger things up! And I am not the
            King. Mrs. Simpson is seeking a divorce.
            The Coronation is set for the 12th of May.
            Her decree becomes final on the 27th of
            April. That gives them two weeks to marry
            and put this issue to rest.LIONELAnd if Mr Baldwin stops them?BERTIEThat would be a tragedy. I pray to The
            Almighty they succeed. I'll do anything
            within my power to keep my brother on the
            throne.LIONELDoes that include debasing yourself?BERTIEIf necessary!LIONELYour brother knew perfectly well by giving
            you a document without warning...BERTIEAre you saying he wanted me to fail?LIONELAre you insisting he didn't? In the future
            we can parse any document into manageable
            phrases. You can sing them, swear them,
            rehearse them til you get the rhythm and
            flow; that, combined with your growing
            confidence...

Bertie doesn't want to hear.BERTIEGrowing confidence? Growing dread!!! You're
            a wicked man, Lionel Logue, trying to get
            me to thrust myself forward as an
            alternative to my brother. Trying to get me
            to commit treason!
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    60.LIONELTrying to get you to   realize you need not
                  be governed by fear.   Again, why did you
                  seek me out? To take   polite elocution
                  lessons so you could   attend posh tea
                  parties?!BERTIEHow dare you! I'm the brother of a
                  King...the son of a King...back through
                  untold centuries. You presume to instruct
                  me on my duty? A jumped-up jackeroo from
                  the outback? The disappointing son of an
                  embittered clerk! You're a monster, Doctor
                  Logue. I'm going to Balmoral to spend a
                  pleasant country weekend with my beloved
                  brother. And these sessions are over!54   INT.   STAGE OF SMALL REGIONAL THEATRE - NEW DAY             54Closed curtains. Someone fumbles behind it.LIONEL (BEHIND CURTAIN)Now?

     Lionel pushes his way through the gap in the curtain. A
     PROVINCIAL DIRECTOR replies from a seat in the auditorium. (Not
     the same Director as in the earlier audition scene.)DIRECTORWere you told? We aren't for London.
                  Playing the provinces.LIONELOuter Mongolia?DIRECTORAvailable, are we?LIONELNothing prevents.DIRECTORI believe that's called "desperate for a
                  part!" Previous experience?LIONELAustralia.DIRECTORYou have played the provinces. Righto!
                  Let's hear what you can do.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                      61.LIONELCaliban?DIRECTORMake him deformed. Audiences like that.LIONELOf course.
                      (rallies himself)
                  "Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises,
                  Sounds and sweet airs, that give delight,
                  and hurt not."

     As magical as Lionel was when he performed for his boys, here
     he's stiff and painfully stilted.LIONEL (CONT'D)"Sometimes a thousand twanging instruments
                  Will hum about mine ears; and sometimes
                  voices..."DIRECTOR(interrupts)
                  Thank you! Don't abandon your day job.
                  Next!

     Logue bows his head.55   INT. LOGUE'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT                               55Lionel enters and sits dejectedly at the table.     Myrtle and the
     boys eat in silence. Finally:LIONELYou may leave.VALENTINEHaven't finished yet, Dad.
                      (realizes)
                  Oh! Right!THE BOYSThanks, Dad. Thanks, Mum.

     They exit.   Myrtle knows something has happened.MYRTLELionel?

     Lionel takes five slim folders out of his jacket pocket and puts
     them on the table in front of Myrtle. She studies them, stunned.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                       62.MYRTLE (CONT'D)Tickets? Home?LIONELFirst class.

     A long pause as Myrtle digests this.MYRTLEWhat about your...LIONELWillie's a problem...not much progress. The
                     others have been referred.MYRTLEWhat'll you do when we get home?LIONELTry not to act the toff. Teach perhaps.MYRTLEYou could...LIONELNo! I'm not good enough!MYRTLEYou gave it a try, Lionel.LIONELYes, I had a go. Thanks to your patience.
                         (grief overwhelms him)
                     I just bloody well wasn't good enough!MYRTLE(studying the tickets)
                     Oh Lionel! This must've cost you.

     CHOP!   CHOP!    CHOP! The sound of an axe.56   EXT.    GROUNDS AND TERRACE, BALMORAL - NEW DAY                 56A woodsman's axe CHOPS into the thick trunk of a massive tree.

     Nearby, a bulldozer cuts into the green turf and rich soil.

     The felling and earth removal are being watched by Churchill and
     Lang from a distant terrace. In the background a jazz band in
     white tuxedos syncopates pertly.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    63.WINSTON CHURCHILLFive hundred year old oaks! Part of the
                  hill! Removed to improve the view!COSMO LANGHow ever does she do it?

     Inside the ballroom, seem through open French doors, an
     afternoon dance is being held. Churchill and Lang look in.57   INT.   BALLROOM, BALMORAL - CONTINUOUS                       57At the epicenter, a dashing couple: David, the very picture of
     insouciance, and clinging to his arm, dripping in jewelry, a
     rather small, angular, dark haired woman, with a high brow and
     square jaw - MRS WALLIS SIMPSON. Her most attractive physical
     feature is her back, displayed fully by a dress that plunges to
     her nates. Surrounded by their entourage, they are the apex of
     chic.

     Watching from the sidelines:WINSTON CHURCHILLErotic sexual techniques beyond polite
                  imagination? I realize of course, that may
                  be outside your personal experience.

     Winston exchanges his empty champagne flute for a full one from
     the tray of a passing footman.COSMO LANGYou've the Devil in you today.WINSTON CHURCHILLIf anyone should know, it would be Your
                  Grace.COSMO LANGAll aspects of mankind are within my venue.
                  Did you know, HM has trouble with his
                  glands?

     Churchill almost chokes on his champagne.WINSTON CHURCHILLI'd not appreciated Your Grace was so well
                  versed concerning things testicular!COSMO LANGThey were severely damaged by the measles
                  when HM and his brother were naval cadets.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    64.WINSTON CHURCHILLA veritable encyclopedic font of
                  scatological information.COSMO LANGApparently it affects the quality, although
                  not the quantity, of HM's endeavors.WINSTON CHURCHILLAnd the brother?COSMO LANGUnscathed. Two daughters. I shepherd my
                  flock in all matters, Winston, including
                  multiplication.

     They make their way inside. In the distance an Austin Princess
     can be seen making its way up the stately tree-line avenue.58   INT.   AUSTIN PRINCESS, BALMORAL ESTATE - CONTINUOUS         58Bertie and Elizabeth are dressed for the party.BERTIEWe must try to be pleasant.ELIZABETHYour father not dead six months, and That
                  Woman throws, "A garden potty." P-o-t-t-y.
                  She's sleeping in your mother's bedroom.
                  And I know perfectly well she calls me `the
                  Dowdy Duchess", and "Cookie".59   INT.   BALLROOM, BALMORAL - DAY                              59At the buffet table Churchill helps himself copiously.WINSTON CHURCHILLHas it occurred to you, as it has only
                  occurred to me, that a Monarch with a gland
                  problem, who realizes he cannot produce
                  issue, might not wish to be King...?
                  knowing his lack of issue may well become a
                  major issue indeed.COSMO LANGA dazzling concept...beautifully phrased.

     A FOOTMAN announces:
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    65.FOOTMANTheir Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess
                  of York.

     Wallis sweeps forward to greet them, but Elizabeth sails past,
     announcing to no one in particular:ELIZABETHI came at the invitation of the King.

     David turns and bows formally. Elizabeth cursties in return.
     Wallis quickly returns to David, taking him forcefully onto the
     dance floor. The Yorks go in the other direction.

     To the side, Churchill and Lang watch David and Wallis do a
     brisk Turkey Trot.WINSTON CHURCHILLAccording to the F.B.I.... she is, after
                  all, one of their citizens...our Monarch
                  does not possess exclusive rights to Mrs.
                  Simpson's sexual favours. Hitler's
                  Ambassador, Count von Ribbentrop, has been
                  sending her 17 carnations every day...one
                  for each time they've slept together.COSMO LANGGood Lord, Winston, we must see to it this
                  Empress of the Night does not become Queen
                  of England!WINSTON CHURCHILLVividly put.

     Churchill has spotted Elizabeth in a side room.WINSTON CHURCHILL (CONT'D)Allow me to test new waters.60   INT.   PORTRAIT GALLERY, BALMORAL - CONTINUOUS                60Churchill makes his way to Elizabeth, who is standing in front
     of a portrait of George IV.ELIZABETHI don't need to be told I behaved badly.WINSTON CHURCHILLOn the contrary, Mam. Court etiquette
                  decrees royalty must be greeted by the
                  official host. In this case: the King. You
                  behaved impeccably. As always.(MORE)TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   66.WINSTON CHURCHILL (CONT'D)(referring to the
                 painting)
            A relative?ELIZABETHDistant.WINSTON CHURCHILL(referring again to the
                 painting)
            You're well aware, of course, George IV's
            wife, Mrs. Fitzherbert, was very common
            indeed...and previously married. She signed
            an agreement that she could never become
            Queen, and their children could not be
            Royal. A rather sensible morganatic
            arrangement.ELIZABETHThat was   a very long time ago. You're
            stirring   with a rather large spoon,
            Winston.   Keep in mind, I'm also a distant
            relative   of Lady Macbeth.WINSTON CHURCHILLI would disremember at my peril.

David is coming briskly down the corridor, struggling to open a
champagne bottle, followed by Bertie determined to catch up.

Elizabeth and Churchill leave the brothers alone.BERTIEDavid...DAVIDWally wants more champagne. I have to fetch
            it. She prefers that.BERTIEBeen trying to see you...DAVIDBeen terribly busy.BERTIEDoing what?DAVIDBeing King.
  TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   67.BERTIEWhere did you get that American accent?
           David...Father's not dead six months, yet
           you've put Mrs. Simpson in the suite used
           by our mother?DAVIDMama's not still in bed, is she?BERTIEThat isn't funny.DAVIDSsssssorry, d-d-dear b-b-oy!BERTIEPlease. No more of that.

A moment of silent confrontation. David backs down. Sort of.DAVIDDidn't realize you cared.BERTIEThis could end in disaster.DAVIDThis will end splendidly. With Wallis as my
           wife.BERTIEWhatever will she call herself?DAVIDQueen of England, I suspect. Kings do
           marry. Empress of India. The whole bag of
           tricks.BERTIEDavid! The upper classes are terrified
           anything which clouds the monarchy makes
           their situation more dangerous. Hunger
           marchers are singing the "Red Flag" in
           front of Westminster...demanding a
           republic...I've seen them...DAVIDHerr Hitler will sort that out.BERTIEWho'll sort out Chancellor Hitler?
TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   68.DAVIDHe's much maligned. By the Jews, according
         to Wallis. And she's very clever about
         politics.BERTIEThe man's a monster! Our position must
         remain clear.DAVIDWhy's that, old chap?BERTIEWe are a German family!DAVIDDidn't bother anyone during WWI. And Kaiser
         Willie was our uncle.BERTIEBecause we took an English name! Windsor.
         Because we are England. We are the heart
         and soul of this nation. That must never
         change.DAVIDAre you already in charge?BERTIEI'm trying to warn you.DAVIDAm I being threatened?BERTIEDavid, your role is to consult and to be
         advised.DAVIDSounds like you've studied our wretched
         constitution.BERTIESounds like you haven't.DAVIDI won't be a lackey to an unwashed
         politician like Stanley Baldwin!BERTIEHe's your Prime Minister.DAVIDAnd I'm his King!
TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   69.BERTIEIf you refuse to listen to our Government,
         they have no choice but to resign.DAVIDI'll form another. There's Winston. He'd
         love to be P.M. We'll create a King's
         Party.BERTIETo fight a general election in which your
         marriage is the only topic?DAVIDI'd risk anything and everything for
         Wallis. Don't I have rights?BERTIEPrivileges.DAVIDNot the same thing.BERTIENo.DAVIDYet an ordinary man may marry for love.BERTIEWe're not ordinary men, David! We were bred
         to be profiles on a coin. If you were
         ordinary, on what basis could you possibly
         claim to be King?!DAVIDWhat's the point then? Just to look posh?
         You know...your speech is much improved
         tonight. Hardly a hesitation. Yearning for
         a larger audience, are we?BERTIEDon't say such a thing!DAVIDIs my young brother trying to push me off
         the throne? Sounds positively medieval.BERTIEI beg of you, don't do this to my wife, my
         daughters, to me.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     70.DAVIDThe politicians will give in. See you at my
                   Coronation...Bertie.

     The champagne cork finally POPS. He strides off.61   EXT.   10 DOWNING STREET - NEW DAY                            61Establishing shot of the Prime Minister's residence.WINSTON CHURCHILL (O.S.)Nice of you to invite me to your digs,
                   Stanley.62   INT.   BALDWIN'S STUDY, 10 DOWNING STREET - DAY               62Baldwin and Churchill are alone together.    No love lost between
     these two men.BALDWINAs you may have guessed...

     Churchill is silent.   Balwin waits, then:BALDWIN (CONT'D)...I intend to resign. The Royal scandal
                   has weakened my position considerably.

     Churchill, on the edge of his seat, can't suppress an
     anticipatory grin. Baldwin takes pleasure in deflating it.BALDWIN (CONT'D)No need to volunteer your services,
                   Winston. Neville Chamberlain will take my
                   place, once this Royal matter is settled.
                   As Chancellor of the Exchequer he already
                   lives next door.WINSTON CHURCHILLMy opportunity to redecorate will come soon
                   enough, Stanley.BALDWINWill it? Well, enough chit-chat. The
                   question of a morganatic marriage, as a
                   possible solution, has been put to the
                   Dominion Prime Ministers. After all, HM is
                   their King too.

     Baldwin has a sheath of telegrams in hand.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    71.BALDWIN (CONT'D)Australia: no.WINSTON CHURCHILLDavid feels there aren't that many people
                  in Australia.BALDWINCanada: no. Union of South Africa: an
                  inappropriate marriage would create a
                  permanent wound. The Irish Free State:
                  states it is not really their affair, and,
                  bluntly, our English King may marry any
                  whore he wants, they'll be well out of it.WINSTON CHURCHILLBloody Irish.BALDWINNew Zealand...wavers.WINSTON CHURCHILLAh, the Kiwis!BALDWINBeing rather remote, they've not even heard
                  of Mrs Simpson. Hardly a winning hand.

     Silence.BALDWIN (CONT'D)This is not about true love, Winston. This
                  is about who's in charge. Does the King do
                  what he wants, or what his people want him
                  to do? Does the King own his nation, or
                  does the nation own their Monarch?WINSTON CHURCHILLHe won't budge.BALDWINNor will we.63   INT.   PLAYROOM, YORK HOUSE - NIGHT                          63Winston Churchill is incongruously inspecting a rocking horse.
     Unable to resist, he sits on it gingerly, rocking back and forth
     lost in a reverie. Eyes closed he extends his right arm as
     though holding a cavalry saber. Bertie enters startling him.BERTIEDon't dismount.
TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   72.WINSTON CHURCHILLGood of you to see me at this late hour.BERTIEThought you were in David's camp?WINSTON CHURCHILLI was.
             (takes a piece of paper
              from his pocket and
              reads)
         "I am now free to tell you how I was
         jockeyed out of the Throne."BERTIEGood Lord! My brother wrote that?WINSTON CHURCHILLWallis wrote it for him. I'll burn it. I
         fear your brother is like the child in a
         fairy story, given everything in the world,
         but they forgot his soul. Quite happy to
         bring his nation to the brink of civil war
         just as we face global conflict.BERTIEWe're not coming to that?!WINSTON CHURCHILLOh, there'll be war, alright.
             (takes out another piece
              of paper)
         Your brother held conversations with the
         Duke of Saxe-Coburg, your cousin, a ranking
         member of the Nazi party. I have the
         Scotland Yard intercept: "Who is King here?
         Baldwin or I? I myself wish to talk with
         Hitler, and will do so here or in Germany."
         I doubt England is ready to return to
         absolute monarchy.BERTIESurely his motives are misunderstood?WINSTON CHURCHILL"If I don't get my way, when the war comes,
         Hitler will crush everyone, including the
         Americans. The British may not want me as
         their King, but I'll soon be back as their
         leader." His intent seems crystal clear.BERTIEWinston?! Don't take him seriously!
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    73.WINSTON CHURCHILLMugs for his cancelled Coronation will soon
                  be on clearance sale.BERTIEYou're willing to go along with this?!
                  Changing horses in mid-stream is a perilous
                  maneuver!!!WINSTON CHURCHILLDepends how badly the horse you're on
                  stumbles.BERTIEIt's not too late, Winston, you could form
                  a government on his behalf.WINSTON CHURCHILLI must decline. Reluctantly.

     The rocking horse CRACKS.   Churchill gets to his feet.WINSTON CHURCHILL (CONT'D)Sorry.
                      (starts to exit, then)
                  I've written a new speech for him.BERTIEI don't want to hear it! Ever!WINSTON CHURCHILLIt does have a rather nice turn of phrase.64   EXT.   MONTAGE OF BRITISH STREETS - DAY                      64It is December 11th, 1936. If practical use the actual recorded
     broadcast (truncated). In London, Birmingham, Edinburgh,
     country hamlets and cathedral towns...the streets are deserted.
     Stragglers hurry indoors to be near:THE GLOWING DIAL OF A RADIODAVID (V.O. RADIO FILTER)At long last I am able to say a few words
                  of my own. Until now it has not been
                  constitutionally possible for me to speak.
                  A few hours ago I discharged my last duty
                  as King and Emperor.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     74.65   INT.   PLAYROOM, YORK HOUSE - CONTINUOUS                      65Bertie and Elizabeth listening to the radio with the two
     princesses royal sitting at their parents' feet. Bertie battles
     his emotions.DAVID (V.O. RADIO FILTER)Now that I have been succeeded by my
                  brother, the Duke of York, my first words
                  must be to declare my allegiance to him.MARGARET ROSE(whispers)
                  Daddy, who broke our rocking horse?BERTIE(whispers)
                  A giant.

     Elizabeth holds a finger to her lips: shush.DAVID (V.O. RADIO FILTER)This has been made less difficult to me by
                  the sure knowledge that my brother has one
                  matchless blessing, enjoyed by so many of
                  you, and not bestowed on me -- a happy home
                  with his wife and children.66   INT. LOGUE'S PARLOUR - NIGHT                                  66The glow of a radio dial. Lionel and Myrtle sit in armchairs,
     the radio on a side-table between them.DAVID (V.O. RADIO FILTER)I have found it impossible to carry the
                  heavy burden of responsibility and to
                  discharge my duties as King as I would wish
                  to do without the help and support of the
                  woman I love.

     Lionel gets up to turn it off as David's voice concludes:DAVID (V.O. RADIO FILTER) (CONT'D)We all have a new King. I wish him and you,
                  his people, happiness and prosperity with
                  all my heart. God bless you all! God save
                  the King!

     Logue strokes Myrtle's hair.LIONELI too "married the woman I love."
TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   75.MYRTLEYou married a shop girl.LIONELA wonderful lass. Someone I can talk to
         heart to heart.MYRTLEUsing simple words and short sentences. I'm
         very ordinary.LIONELThat's why we're suited. I'm just an
         ordinary bloke.MYRTLEOrdinary? You're a man with wild dreams,
         Lionel. Mine are so very small. A job, a
         husband, a home. Raising our sons. That's
         all I ever wanted.LIONELMe too.MYRTLEIs that why, every day, you've spent hours
         with a man who's about to be King?LIONELThat relationship is now past tense.MYRTLEYet, for as long as you could, you did what
         you wanted.LIONELI wanted to be a great actor. That's what I
         wanted.MYRTLEAnd failing that...LIONELI certainly failed!MYRTLEA great healer. Always...'great'. Where
         does a shop girl fit in?LIONELVery snugly, into my heart! Always have,
         always will.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   76.MYRTLETrouble is, Lionel, when you say that, I
                  still believe it.67   INT.   INNER COURTYARD, YORK HOUSE - DAY                    67The Royal standard on a gleaming car's bonnet.

     Bertie stands uneasily in the uniform of an Admiral of the Fleet
     as the driver opens the door. Bertie realizes its a Rolls.BERTIEWhere's the Austin?DRIVERThe Palace changed it, Your Highness.BERTIEI liked the Austin.DRIVERSo did I, sir.

     The two girls wave from their open playroom window, and call:MARGARET ROSEYou look like a chicken.LILIBETA rooster.

     He waves, and gets in.68   EXT.   ST. JAMES PALACE - THAT DAY                          68A formal voice announces:MASTER OF THE COUNCIL (O.S.)His Majesty will address the Accession
                  Council and take his oath.69   INT.   ANTECHAMBER, ACCESSION COUNCIL - CONTINUOUS          69Bertie looks at himself in a full length mirror, making last
     minute adjustments to his uniform. Staring at his reflection:BERTIEHow did this happen to you?
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     77.70   INT.   ACCESSION COUNCIL CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS                 70Bertie walks to the podium like a man to the gallows faced with
     an array of the Privy Councillors, members of the House of
     Lords, the Lord Mayor of the City of London, the Aldermen of the
     City of London and the High Commissioners of the Commonwealth
     countries.

     All the old symptoms reappear: the tightening of the neck
     muscles, the protruding Adam's apple, the jaw locking.BERTIEMy Lords, members of the Accession Council,
                  I meet you today in circumstances which are
                  without parallel in the history of our
                  Country...

     Its going to be a terrible performance. He bows his head in
     humility. And shame.71   INT.   PLAYROOM, YORK HOUSE - THAT DAY                        71Elizabeth is playing quietly with her daughters when the door
     opens and Bertie appears, still in full regalia, straight from
     the Accession Council. He holds his arm out, expecting them to
     run to him for a hug and kiss, his solace after the ordeal.
     They remain where they are.BERTIEDaddy's home.

     They curtsy formally.LILIBET & MARGARET ROSEYour Majesty.

     Bertie is devastated.   Elizabeth takes him quickly out into the
     corridor.72   INT.   BERTIE'S STUDY, YORK HOUSE - DAY                       72BERTIEI don't want to lose you.ELIZABETHHow could you possibly?BERTIEBeing what we both dread most.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     78.ELIZABETHDear, dear, man, I refused your first two
                   marriage proposals because, as much as I
                   loved you, I couldn't abide the thought of
                   living in the Royal gilded cage. Then I
                   realized...you stuttered so
                   beautifully...they'd leave you alone.

     She takes his face in her hands tenderly.ELIZABETH (CONT'D)If I must be Queen, I will be a good Queen.
                   The wife of a very great King indeed.
                       (then)
                   You know what you must do.73   INT.   LOGUE'S CONSULTATION ROOM & WAITING ROOM - NEW DAY     73Logue is working with Anna. She's reading smoothly and with
     great intensity.ANNA"Had I the heavens' embroidered cloths
                   Enwrought with golden and silver light, The
                   bbb..."

     Gets stuck.LIONELWe haven't much more time together. Give it
                   a go.

     The doorbell RINGS.     Logue is annoyed.LIONEL (CONT'D)There weren't any more appointments today.

     The bell RINGS again.    He yells:LIONEL (CONT'D)Piss off!
                       (gently)
                   Anna?ANNA"The blue and the dim and the dark cloths
                   Of night and light and the half-light..."

     The door opens and Bertie enters the waiting area. Hearing Anna
     he stops outside the consultation room and listens.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   79.ANNA (CONT'D)"I would spread the cloths under your feet,
            But I, being poor, have only my dreams.
            I have spread my dreams under your feet;
            Tread softly because you tread on my
            dreams."

Silence.LIONEL(softly)
            Read it to him. If he doesn't profess his
            love, he's not a man.

Anna nods earnestly.ANNAThank you...Lionel.

She exits via the Waiting Room and almost runs into Bertie. On
recognizing him, she bobs her head.BERTIEThat was lovely. Don't take any guff.ANNACan I tell my Harold that's what you said?BERTIEI'd be honoured.

She dashes off.

Logue comes to the door of the Waiting Room, in effect blocking
Bertie's way in.LIONELJohnson, isn't it? Have you an appointment?BERTIEWant me to beg?LIONELI told you, Kings don't beg.BERTIEI believe this time a bit of begging might
            be required. Elizabeth says I must eat
            humble crow.LIONELIts "crow" or "humble pie". Take your pick.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   80.BERTIE(gathering resolve)
                 I was frightened and took refuge in being
                 `Royal'. What I said was unforgivable.
                 And...LIONELAnd?BERTIE(blurts out)
                 What's the one essential thing a King must
                 do? He must believe he is King. How can I
                 possibly do that? For pity sake, Lionel, I
                 beg you: get me through! I'll pay you
                 another shilling.LIONELWhat're friends for?

     Logue steps aside, letting Bertie in.BERTIEI wouldn't know.74   INT. LOGUE BEDROOM - NIGHT                                  74The double bed is piled high with clothing, a suitcase at its
     foot. Myrtle is sorting. She hears Lionel enter behind her. At
     first, she doesn't turn. Lionel remains silent.MYRTLEI've got the boys sorting their things.
                 Your office will be a chore...

     Realizing something is amiss, she turns, and knows instantly
     what Lionel's going to tell her. Her hand goes to her mouth to
     stifle her emotions.75   INT. BERTIE'S STUDY - DAY                                   75Bertie is with visitors: Churchill and Lang. There's a slight
     but discernible change in his demeanor.COSMO LANGWe asked to see Your Highness because
                 there's the urgent question of what to call
                 your brother. Aside from the obvious.

     Bertie is not pleased with His Grace's joke, but lets it pass.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   81.BERTIEWhat do you suggest?COSMO LANGMr. Edward Windsor? All he deserves.BERTIEWhat has my brother given up on his
            abdication, other than the throne?

They look at each other, unsure.BERTIE (CONT'D)Wouldn't it be a good idea to find out
            before coming to me? He cannot be Mister,
            as he was born the son of a Duke. Which
            makes him a Lord at the very least.WINSTON CHURCHILLVery well, Lord E.W. it is.BERTIEAnd as a Lord of the realm, he's entitled
            to be elected to the House of Commons.
            Heading a King's Party.COSMO LANGUnacceptable!BERTIESo you prefer he takes a seat in the House
            of Lords? Again, on behalf of a King's
            Party? Is that acceptable?WINSTON CHURCHILLCertainly not.BERTIEBut if he's made a Royal Duke, and called
            His Royal Highness, he cannot stand for
            Parliament. Nor may he speak or vote in the
            House of Lords.COSMO LANG(realizing)
            Oh I say...BERTIEThe Duke of Windsor it is. Gentlemen.

He exits abruptly.

Churchill and Lang gather their things stunned.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    82.WINSTON CHURCHILLNot exactly a dummy, is he?76   EXT.   FACADE OF D.HENRY LTD. LEATHERGOODS, KNIGHTSBRIDGE - DAY76Myrtle is in the shop window, arranging handbags, luggage, and
     briefcases.77   INT. D.HENRY LTD. - CONTINUOUS                                77In the store Myrtle can be seen dressing the window, while in
     his glass office the OWNER, a portly bald gentleman with a
     Dickensian air, is deep in concerned conversation with a man in
     trench-coat. The Owner keeps glancing worriedly in Myrtle's
     direction.

     The two men nod, shake hands. The fellow in the trench-coat
     leaves. The owner beckons another shop-girl over and whispers
     something to her. She heads towards Myrtle.BERTIE (O. S.)"Let's go gathering hearty heather with the
                  gay brigade of grand dragons."78   INT. LOGUE'S STUDY AND PARLOUR - DAY                          78A wall divides the study from the living area, allowing the
     action in both spaces to be viewed.

     IN THE PARLOUR: Elizabeth waits, ill at ease.IN THE STUDY:LIONELSplendid. Here's another. "She sifted seven
                  thick-stalked thistles through strong thick
                  sieves." At home, twenty-five times, in
                  rapid succession.BERTIEThose are my hardest sounds.

     Lionel gives him a look.BERTIE (CONT'D)Oh.LIONELShall we invite your wife in now?
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     83.


Logue goes to the door and starts to open it. He shuts it
quickly.LIONEL (CONT'D)I wasn't expecting Myrtle for several
            hours!

IN THE PARLOUR: Myrtle has entered, definitely unhappy. Seeing
Elizabeth, she's even less happy, and flabbergasted.MYRTLEMilady?ELIZABETH"Your Majesty", the first time. After that,
            "Ma'am". Not Malm as in Palm, Mam as in
            ham. I'm informed your husband calls my
            husband Bertie and my husband calls your
            husband Lionel. I trust, however, you won't
            attempt to call me Liz.

IN THE STUDY: Lionel stands listening, ear to the door.BERTIEHow're they getting on?LIONELAs to be expected.

IN THE PARLOUR: Myrtle announces:MYRTLEYou may call me "Madam Logue".

Myrtle's at a loss knowing what to do with a Duchess.MYRTLE (CONT'D)May I offer you a cup of tea, Ma'am?ELIZABETHThank you, Madame Logue, but I'm waiting to
            be summoned.

Silence.MYRTLEYou don't like my husband. That's what I
            was told.ELIZABETHI was told the same.IN THE STUDY:TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   84.BERTIEDo we remain in hiding?LIONELI'm not going out there!IN THE PARLOUR:MYRTLEWhat do you dislike about my Lionel?ELIZABETHI don't wish my husband to be demeaned.
            What don't you like about mine?MYRTLEI don't want my Lionel getting hurt.ELIZABETHThere's only one thing can save him now:
            success.

IN THE STUDY: the men are growing increasingly nervous.BERTIEWe're being cowards.LIONELOf course. We're sensible men.BERTIEYou should go in.LIONELMe? You.BERTIEWhy me?!LIONELYou're the Royal.BERTIEBeing a monarchist, I recognize these are
            your digs. Therefore: here you rule.
            Therefore: you go in.

Urged by Bertie, Logue opens the door.

IN THE PARLOUR: Logue enters, pretending total innocence and
surprise, followed by Bertie, also trying to keep the pretense.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    85.LIONELOh! Hello, Lady Elizabeth! Oh! Hello,
            Myrtle darling! What a pleasant surprise.

Myrtle stares at him and takes her revenge.MYRTLEWill the Yorks be staying for dinner?

Logue and Bertie look panic-stricken.   Elizabeth comes to the
rescue.ELIZABETHA previous engagement.LIONELSome other time, love.

Logue ushers Elizabeth into the study, giving Myrtle a nervous
little wave. She glares and exits.IN THE STUDY:LIONEL (CONT'D)Glad you had a chance to meet Myrtle.

Bertie stifles a snort. Elizabeth glares at him.LIONEL (CONT'D)(to Elizabeth)
            Good of you to come.ELIZABETHHarley Street is far too public. What is my
            function here?LIONELFor me to show you how to pitch in.ELIZABETHOh dear, I may not be a `pitch in' type.LIONELPiece of cake.
                (to Bertie)
            Please assume a supine position on the
            floor.ELIZABETHWhat?!LIONELFirm support is needed.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                      86.


Bertie dutifully lies on the floor.LIONEL (CONT'D)Breathe deeply...expand your chest... now
               your stomach...deep into the diaphragm.
               Splendid. How do you feel?BERTIEFull of hot air.LIONELWell on your way to becoming a qualified
               political speaker. Again...

Bertie inhales deeply.LIONEL (CONT'D)... and hold. Now, Princess Elizabeth, be
               so kind as to sit on your husband's
               stomach.ELIZABETHGood grief.LIONELGently of course.

Elizabeth sits gingerly on Bertie's stomach, asking
solicitously:ELIZABETHAre you alright, Bertie?

Bertie nods.LIONELNow exhale slowly...down goes Princess
               Elizabeth...inhale slowly...nothing rushed,
               expanding your chest fully, extending the
               column of air til it hits the
               diaphragm...and...up comes Princess
               Elizabeth. Exhale...down goes Princess
               Elizabeth...inhale...up comes Princess
               Elizabeth. You get the idea. Doesn't have
               to be Princess Elizabeth of course, but I
               thought you'd prefer your wife to one of
               the staff. Now comes the fun part.ELIZABETHThere's actually more?

Bertie springs to his feet while Logue opens a window.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     87.LIONELYou will now shout the vowel sounds, all
                   five of them, as loudly as possible, each
                   to last no less than 15 seconds. There's
                   poor coordination between your larynx and
                   diaphragm. Princess Elizabeth, you can be
                   the official timer.ELIZABETHVowel sounds? Shouted at an open window? On
                   a public street?LIONELAnyone who can stand at an open window
                   vibrating loudly in full view of the world
                   can learn to give a public speech.ELIZABETHThey can also be considered quite dotty.
                   Don't even contemplate it!BERTIESorry, dear, doctor's orders.
                   Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa...
                       (stops)
                   She's right, those two chaps are staring at
                   me.ELIZABETHThey're always looking at you.LIONEL(startled)
                   You're followed?ELIZABETHRoyal scrutiny, Doctor, best get used to
                   it.BERTIE...aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaayyyyyyyyyyy...
                   ...eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee...
                       (to Elizabeth)
                   Are you timing this?
                   iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii...
                   ooooooooooooooooooooooooo...
                   uuuuuuuuuuu.79   INT.   LOGUE'S DINING ROOM - LATER                            79The family eat in tense silence
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                  88.VALENTINEMay we be excused?LIONELNo.

The unhappy meal continues.PETER(mumbles)
            We don't want to hear you fight.LIONELWe're not fighting. Your mother isn't
            talking.MYRTLEYou wish me to speak my mind?LIONELBoys, leave.THE BOYSThank you, Dad! Thank you, Mum!

They exit hurriedly.MYRTLELionel...without warning, I arrive home to
            find the Queen in my parlour.LIONELA Duchess, she hasn't been crowned yet.MYRTLELionel, don't quibble!LIONELWhat'd you think of her?MYRTLEDoes it matter!? She's the Queen and he's
            the King forgodsake! What're they doing
            here?!LIONELWhy'd you come home so early?MYRTLELionel...LIONELThey came for help.
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                      89.MYRTLEWhat role are you auditioning for now?
               Royal saviour?! Who's going to help us?!
               This will bring us down, Lionel. You know
               it will.LIONELWhen that poor chap first walked into my
               office, he was a slim, quiet man with tired
               eyes and all the outward symptoms of the
               person upon whom a habitual speech defect
               has set the sign. You saw him today; once
               more there was hope.MYRTLEYou're not listening to me!

She gets up angrily and starts carrying dishes to the kitchen.
He follows her back and forth.LIONELMyrtle, I love you.MYRTLEYou say that, but you don't listen when I
               say, in so many ways, how desperately I
               want to go home, how I never, ever,
               intended to stay here. This was to be a
               holiday trip to see `Mother England', and
               you turned it into quite something else.
               What happened, Lionel? We went to Wembley
               Stadium, next thing...you'd cashed in our
               tickets.

He's silent.MYRTLE (CONT'D)Very well, I shan't talk of this ever
               again. I will, as always, be supportive of
               your endeavours.LIONELMyrtle... I don't deserve a wonderful woman
               like you.MYRTLEHow right you are.LIONELBut why'd you come home so early?MYRTLELionel...I was let go.
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   90.


     He's stunned.MYRTLE (CONT'D)Inquiries were made...Mr Falkoff wouldn't
                  say who...afterwards it was: `With your
                  hubby treating a personage that high and
                  mighty, you won't be needing employment
                  with us, will you, Mrs Logue?'LIONEL(anguished)
                  Why?!MYRTLEThey're frightened, Lionel. Of what seems
                  so far above them. I sympathize. I'm
                  frightened too.LIONELOh, Myrtle. My love...80   WESTMINSTER ABBEY - NEW DAY                                 80Establishing shot of this architectural icon.COSMO LANG (O.S.)Winston, you do read the newspapers?81   INT.   WESTMINSTER ABBEY - DAY                              81A massive cavern of stone statuary and stained glass. The
     center piece of this particular section is the throne of Edward
     the Confessor. Scaffolding is in the process of being erected
     to supply lighting for the Coronation. Archbishop Lang and
     Churchill inspect it with satisfaction.WINSTON CHURCHILLOnly the vulgar ones.

     Churchill pours two nips of whiskey into metal cups nested in a
     hip flask.WINSTON CHURCHILL (CONT'D)To our new King.COSMO LANGLet's sincerely hope.

     They look at each other in silence.WINSTON CHURCHILLIs this a `slightly pregnant pause'?
TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   91.COSMO LANGThey say he is dim.WINSTON CHURCHILLDemonstrably untrue.COSMO LANGThey say he has epilepsy.WINSTON CHURCHILLPatently erroneous.COSMO LANGFragile, prone to illness...WINSTON CHURCHILLSome correctness in that.COSMO LANG...and will die prematurely. They predict
         he'll be unable to complete the Coronation.WINSTON CHURCHILLWhat do you propose? Shorten the ceremony?
         Or no ceremony at all?COSMO LANGMy idea exactly!WINSTON CHURCHILLI believed so. But what we need is a
         pageant of pomp and pomposity to impress
         the world.COSMO LANGWhat we need, and what we'll get, may be
         two rather different things. Did you hear
         his pathetic attempt at the Accession
         Council? He'll never be able to speak in
         public.WINSTON CHURCHILLSo, we plonk a tinsel crown on his head and
         lock him in a closet? Who then will
         spiritually lead this great nation into
         war? Who will address the far flung corners
         of the Empire, rallying all to our defense?COSMO LANGWell...WINSTON CHURCHILLThe Head of our Church? Is that what you
         have in mind?
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   92.COSMO LANGWould it be such a calamity?WINSTON CHURCHILLBest ask our new King.

Bertie has entered with Logue. Lang spins around.COSMO LANGYour Majesty.WINSTON CHURCHILLExcuse me, sir, duty calls.

He exits quickly. Cosmo continues nervously as they walk
through the Abbey, the Archbishop pointing out the preparations
in progress, particularly a booth for broadcasters.BERTIEIs this the scene of the crime?COSMO LANGWhat a peculiar thing to say.BERTIEReferring to my assault upon the ears of
            the listeners.COSMO LANGAh, yes, wireless is indeed a Pandora's
            Box. I have, however, categorically said no
            to the BBC's new "radio-with-pictures"
            gadget. Imagine, the unwashed viewing us as
            we blow our noses or scratch our bottoms.BERTIERadio with pictures?!COSMO LANGIt is called..."television". Happily, with
            a transmission range of only fifteen miles
            this "TV" thing has no future. We shall,
            however, be forced to permit cinema; the
            product of which I shall personally edit.BERTIEThat'll keep you busy, removing all my
            stops and starts.COSMO LANGUnless of course you'd prefer a quiet
            ceremony?
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   93.BERTIEWhat exactly do you mean?COSMO LANGSomething...discreet...private. We could
            pre-record an edited version to be
            broadcast to the world. Or even find an
            actor with a similar voice.

Logue has arrived and comes out of the shadows.LIONELA King based upon deception?

Cosmo takes Bertie aside.COSMO LANGIf your gentleman from Security would give
            us space, we could discuss this in private.BERTIEYou mean my bodyguard,"Crusher?"

Giving Lionel a scathing look, Lang continues speaking to Bertie
confidentially.COSMO LANGFret not. As I assured our nation in my
            recent broadcast: "When his people listen
            to their new Monarch they will note an
            occasional momentary hesitation in his
            speech. But to those who hear it, it need
            cause no sort of embarrassment, for it
            causes none to him who speaks." You see,
            I've paved the way. But should you wish to
            avoid further stress...LIONELWhy not paint him pink and cover him with
            sequins?COSMO LANGPardon?!LIONELIf you wish to call attention to his
            anxiety.COSMO LANGDoes your bodyguard know to whom he's
            speaking? He certainly doesn't know his
            place!
TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   94.BERTIEDoctor Lionel Logue, my speech therapist.COSMO LANGTherapist?! I'd no idea! Had I known Your
         Majesty was seeking assistance I would've
         made my own recommendation.BERTIEDr. Logue is to be present at the
         Coronation.COSMO LANGImpossibly to find room. Even for a Doctor.LIONELJust Lionel.BERTIEBehind the chair of Edward the Confessor.COSMO LANGThe Royal Box!? Your Family will be seated
         there.BERTIEWhich makes it most suitable.COSMO LANGPerhaps I might be able to add a very small
         stool.BERTIETwo comfortable chairs. One for Madam
         Logue. She's a close friend of my wife. The
         Queen.COSMO LANGI'll have someone attend to it.LIONELAnd now, if you don't mind, we need the
         premises.COSMO LANGMy dear fellow, this is Westminster Abbey!
         The Church must make preparations.LIONELSo must Bertie.COSMO LANGBertie?! We do not call the King: "Bertie"!
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                        95.LIONELI do. During waking hours we'll need the
            facilities. It'll be a closed set. No
            observers.BERTIEThose are my wishes, Your Grace.

Lang nods curtly and exits.BERTIE (CONT'D)You've made a dangerous enemy.LIONELWouldn't want him as a friend.BERTIEAnd don't ever call me Bertie in public.

A moment of confrontation.    Lionel knows he's overstepped.LIONELTell me...BERTIEI sense one of your dreadful questions on
            the horizon.LIONELDo you really want to be King?BERTIEKnew it! I haven't any choice.LIONELYou can be a wounded King who stumbles
            through his Coronation. Or, as the Arch of
            C so archly suggests, no Coronation at all.
            Always a choice.BERTIEWhat's this, you wait til Westminster
            Abbey, then ambush me?LIONELI'm simply asking questions... which you
            seem unable to answer.BERTIEI'm a sacrificial lamb being led to
            slaughter! Damn you!
   TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     96.LIONELQuite possibly. But at least I know what I
            want. You haven't the foggiest.BERTIE(explodes)I WANT TO BE HEARD!His words reverberate through the empty abbey.LIONELThat's quite different. Let's get down to
            work then, shall we?

Bertie glares at him.LIONEL (CONT'D)As soon as you and Elizabeth enter the West
            door, you'll be greeted with the hymn "I
            Was Glad When They Said Unto Me." You won't
            actually be that glad, because they sing it
            for a great long time.

Bertie follows Logue deep into the bowels of the `Abbey'.LIONEL (CONT'D)You'll then show yourself to the various
            sides of the Abbey as the Archbishop
            announces four times in a loud voice,
            "Sirs, I here present unto you..." Have you
            decided your name for when you become King?
            For when you become a different person?BERTIEGeorge.LIONELLike your father?BERTIELike my father.LIONELNot Albert?BERTIEGiven the current situation...too Germanic.LIONEL"Sirs, I here present unto you, GEORGE,
            your undoubted King!"
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   97.


     "George, your undoubted King!" echoes through the Abby.DISSOLVE TO:82   INT. AN OFFICE IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY - NIGHT                    82Lang is on the phone. The door is open. While talking he
     watches the work preparations. On the phone he tells someone:COSMO LANGI've made inquiries.83   INT. LOGUE DINING ROOM - NIGHT                                 83Logue enters and sits at the table. Myrtle serves him.MYRTLEA bit dry. Tried to keep it warm.LIONELMmm... Kedgeree! Lovely.MYRTLEYou look done in.LIONELI've news for you. You're coming to the
                 Coronation.MYRTLEI've news for you. I'm not!LIONELYou must.MYRTLEStand in the rain hoping for a glimpse?LIONELRoyal Box. You and I.

     Stunned silence, then.MYRTLELionel...I'd need a new dress.LIONELRather thought you might.

     Valentine calls from the next room:
        TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     98.VALENTINE (O.S.)Dad! Phone! For you!LIONELWon't be a sec.

     He exits. Myrtle waits. Looks at herself, bemused, reflected in
     a glass-fronted cabinet. Even does a curtsey.84   INT.   WESTMINSTER ABBEY - THAT NIGHT                         84The last of the preparation crew are being scurried out by Lang.
     He gives a final, satisfied, look at the cavernous space, like a
     director preparing the stage for a final scene. He quotes
     Shakespeare, extremely pleased with himself:COSMO LANG"The play's the thing, wherein I'll catch
                  the conscience of a King."

     He exits.

     THE CAMERA explores various elements:

     The Throne of Edward the Confessor.

     Beneath it, a large rough-hewn stone: The Stone Of Scone.

     Leaning against the Throne, a huge sword, set there for the next
     Coronation rehearsal.

     Majestic stained glass windows of saints, kings, and martyrs.

     Rows of pews, worn with centuries of use.

     Graves of the mighty: kings, poets, and statesmen.

     This Abbey holds the history of a nation.

     Footsteps resonate.

     Lionel enters.   Trips over one of the gravestones.LIONELBertie? Blast! Stepped on Lord Byron.
                  Bertie...?

     Lights snap on skewering Lionel. Bertie steps into view wearing
     a coat against the night chill of the stone cathedral.BERTIEThis is not a rehearsal, "Doctor" Logue.
TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   99.LIONELAh, the Star Chamber inquisition. I
         wondered when that would happen. And I'd
         promised Myrtle a new frock.BERTIE(barely controlled)
         "Just call me Lionel"! Never did you call
         yourself `Doctor'. We did that for you. No
         diploma, no training, no credentials. Just
         a great deal of nerve.LIONELWant to hear my side of the story?BERTIEThere isn't a "your-side-of-the-story".
         This is my story. And you've ruined it! Its
         not just the Coronation, terrifying enough,
         its the radio speech to millions
         afterwards, and the speech after that, and
         for the rest of my failed miserable life!LIONEL(softly)
         Wembley Stadium...BERTIEYou dare remind me?!LIONELI was there.BERTIEThen you knew from the start I was
         hopeless?!LIONELMy son, Valentine, asked, "Could you help
         that poor man?" I replied, "He's too old
         for me to manage a complete cure, but I
         could very nearly do it, I'm sure of that."BERTIELying bastard!LIONELI knew I could help you. You refuse to
         believe?BERTIEIn you?!
TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    100.LIONELIn yourself.BERTIEWho the hell do you think you are?!LIONELA failed actor.BERTIEActor?LIONELFather wanted me to be a doctor, but I
          couldn't cut flesh. So I worked in the
          mines, recited in pubs...BERTIEAn actor?!LIONELWhen the war came, by the time I was ready
          to be shipped out, the first casualties
          were limping home. Poor buggers, broken in
          bone and spirit. `Lionel, you're good with
          your mouth, see if you can help these poor
          sods.' The shell-shocked were the saddest.
          Most stuttered profoundly. Far worse than
          you. Muscle therapy helped somewhat, but I
          found I had to go deeper, as you might well
          imagine.BERTIEI know nothing of those poor men!LIONELI think you do. They had cried out, and the
          universe had not listened. So they'd lost
          faith in their voice. My job was to make
          them shout in righteous anger: "I have the
          right to be heard!"BERTIEI suppose that helped them, did it?LIONELMake inquiries.BERTIEInquiries have been made! No credentials.LIONELBut a lot of success. No training was
          given.(MORE)TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    101.LIONEL (CONT'D)Not in Western Australia, not at that time.
            I simply knew what to do. When the war was
            over I kept being a therapist to earn a
            living. When the lads were old enough, I
            thought, "Alright Lionel, you've always
            wanted to be an actor, one last go." I
            pretended it was our trip home to Mother
            England, the Great Australian Pilgrimage.BERTIETo Harley Street?!LIONELCashed in our return tickets. I had three
            months rent.BERTIESo you set yourself up on Harley Street as
            an actor? Harley Street, don't you know, is
            for doctors!LIONELThe plaque says, `L. Logue. Speech
            Specialist'. No mention of a medical
            degree. No mention of any degree. Some of
            the diggers I'd helped had come to England.
            They made referrals. My practice
            flourished. My acting, however, did not.BERTIEWell enough to deceive me.LIONELLock me in the Tower.BERTIEI would if I could!LIONELWhat crime?BERTIEYou've saddled this nation in its moment of
            peril with a voiceless King. Destroyed the
            happiness of my family...all for the sake
            of ensnaring a star client you knew you
            couldn't possibly assist!

Lionel sits down on the chair of Edward the Confessor. Leaning
against it is the great two-handed sword of St. George.BERTIE (CONT'D)What're you doing? Get up!
TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    102.LIONELI'm tired.BERTIEYou can't sit there!LIONELWhy not? It's a chair.BERTIEIt's the Chair of Edward The Confessor! The
          throne upon which every King for six and a
          half centuries has been crowned.LIONELIt's falling apart. People have carved
          their initials into it. Needs a stone to
          keep from blowing away.BERTIEThat's the Stone of Scone! The Stone of
          Destiny that was once Jacob's pillow.LIONELYou believe such ballocks I don't care how
          many royal backsides have sat on it, it's a
          building block with handles attached.
          You're just like me, an actor with tawdry
          stage props you choose to believe are real.BERTIEListen to me... !LIONELListen to you?! By what right?BERTIEDivine right, if you must! I'm your King!!!LIONELNoooo you're not! Told me so yourself. Said
          you didn't want it. So why should I listen
          to a poor stuttering bloke who can't put
          one word after another? Why waste my time
          listening to you?BERTIEBecause I have a right to be heard!LIONELHeard as what?!BERTIEA man! I HAVE A VOICE!!!
  TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    103.LIONEL(quietly)
            Well then...you're cured.BERTIEStop trying to squirm off the hook.LIONELBertie, you'll make a bloody good king. And
            you know it.

Bertie stares at him.

A familiar voice is heard from the shadows.VOICEYour Majesty?

The Archbishop of Canterbury.COSMO LANGYou'll be relieved to learn I've found a
            replacement specialist. Impeccable
            credentials.

There's a long silence.BERTIEThat won't be necessary.COSMO LANGThe matter's already been settled. For your
            own well-being.BERTIEWhat did you say?COSMO LANGYour Majesty's function is to consult...and
            to be advised. You didn't consult, but
            you've just been advised.BERTIENow I advise you, so listen carefully.
            ...in this personal matter I will make my
            own decision.COSMO LANGMay I remind you, you do not place the
            crown upon your own head.BERTIEAnd may I remind you, it is my head upon
            which the crown is placed!
       TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     104.COSMO LANGThis will end badly.

     Lang turns on his heel.

     Lionel ignores what has just happened.LIONELIn hushed tones the BBC commentator paints
                 a picture for the world, as you stand at
                 the altar divested of your robes. Trumpets
                 echo through the Abbey. The incessant rain
                 clears miraculously as a shaft of sun
                 streams through the stained-glass window
                 catching your golden tunic and bathing you
                 in light like a mediaeval knight. And you
                 are King!

     The faint CLICKING WHIR of a film projector is heard.85   INT. ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY'S SCREENING ROOM - NEW DAY      85On the screen: archive footage of the Coronation, capturing the
     pomp and ceremony. Cigar smoke rises up. The voices of
     Churchill and Lang can be heard.COSMO LANG (O.S.)I was much movedWINSTON CHURCHILL (O.S.)There were tears in my eyes too, Your
                 Grace, particularly when I saw you and the
                 Dean of Westminster cannoning into each
                 other.COSMO LANG (O.S.)That's been edited.WINSTON CHURCHILL (O.S.)More tears when our new Monarch started
                 towards his throne, only to be brought to
                 an abrupt halt owing to one of the Bishops
                 treading on his robe.COSMO LANG (O.S.)To the world, all went splendidly.WINSTON CHURCHILLAmidst a vitrine of glittering jewels,
                 bobbing tiaras, and heaving bosoms.

     The footage freezes momentarily.
       TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     105.COSMO LANG (O.S.)Now, Winston, I have something which will
                  bring tears to your eyes.

     The archive footage continues, but it is not of the Coronation.
     David and Wallis visiting the Fuhrer in Germany: Hitler
     gallantly kissing Mrs Simpson's hand while Goring and the Duke
     of Windsor beam; David giving the Nazi salute. FREEZE FRAME.
     The lights come on. For once, Churchill is speechless.COSMO LANG (CONT'D)There's no doubt: David is planning a
                  comeback. And will succeed if our King
                  continues to falter. Though Bertie
                  miraculously survived the Coronation he
                  continues to stumble very badly indeed.
                  Soon he must broadcast to the world. Hitler
                  will be listening. David will be listening.
                  Stalin and Roosevelt will be listening.
                  Everyone will be listening. God help us.BERTIE (V.O.)(stuttering very badly)
                  "In this grave hour... "86   INT.   LOGUE'S CONSULTATION ROOM - NEW DAY                    86Bertie and Logue are rehearsing.BERTIE"In this grave hour... " Sorry.LIONELTry again.BERTIE"In this grave hour... "LIONELTurn the halts into pauses, during which
                  you say to yourself, "God save the King".BERTIEI say that all the time, but apparently no
                  one's listening.LIONELUse the silence. Long pauses add solemnity
                  to great occasions.BERTIEThen I'm the solemnest king who ever lived.
                  Lionel, I can't do this!
  TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    106.


Logue tries to protest, Bertie over-rides.BERTIE (CONT'D)If I am to be King...where is my power? May
            I form a Government on my own, appoint or
            dismiss a Prime Minister, chose an
            Ambassador, levy a tax or declare a war?
            None of these things. Yet I am the seat of
            all authority. Why? Because the Nation
            believes when I speak, I speak for them.
            Yet I cannot speak!

Logue totally ignores the outburst.LIONELTake it from the top. "In this grave
            hour..."BERTIE(hesitates, then)
            "In this grave hour, p-p-perhaps..."LIONELGo on...BERTIEThe letter`P' is always difficult.LIONELGet a running start, put the words all
            together. `Perhaps-the-most-fateful...'BERTIE"In this grave hour...perhaps-the-most-
            fateful...in our history..."LIONELBeaut.BERTIE"... I send to every household of my
            peoples...both at home and overseas..."LIONEL (SINGS)Doo-dah, doo-dah.BERTIE"...this message... "LIONEL (SINGS)Five miles long...
  TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    107.BERTIE"...spoken with the same depth of feeling
            for each one of you... as if I were
            able..."LIONELIn your head, now: "Bugger, bugger, bugger!
            Damn, damn, damn! All those bloody
            blighters are going to have to listen to
            me!" Can you dance?BERTIEWhat?LIONELHelps relax the body.
                (goes to record player)
            Waltz?BERTIEI prefer pipes.LIONELThought you might.
                (starts a bagpipe record
                 of "Scotland The Brave")
            Dance with me. One, two, one-two-three-
            four. One, two, one- two-three-four. "For
            the second time..." one-two-three-four "...
            in the lives of most of us..." one, two,
            one-two-three- four "... we are at war."
            Three, four.

Dancing at arm's length with Logue, Bertie repeats:BERTIE"For the second time... in the lives of
            most of us... we are at war." One-two-
            three. (continues on)
             "Over and over again... we have tried to
            find a peaceful way... out of the
            differences... between ourselves... and
            those who are now our enemies." Bugger,
            bugger, bugger! Fuck, fuck, fuck!LIONELYou'll be ready.BERTIE(pause)
            The shilling you won... still have it?LIONELOf course.
       TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   108.


     Bertie holds out his hand, demandingly. Somewhat hurt, Lionel
     hands it over.BERTIEI'll return it.

     Bertie leaves with the shilling, exiting the back way.

     Logue opens the waiting room door.LIONELWillie! Where's your mum?WILLIE(stuttering painfully)
                  She had to work.LIONELYou've been waiting here, alone, all this
                  time?

     Willie nods again. Then, haltingly:WILLIEI heard the King.LIONELDid you?WILLIEHe sang. And shouted rude words.LIONELHe did.

     Willie beams.LIONEL (CONT'D)Would you like to sing, dance, and shout
                  rude words?WILLIE (NO STUTTER)I would!LIONELWhy am I not surprised?87   INT.   KING'S STUDY, BUCKINGHAM PALACE - NEW NIGHT          87The dreaded BBC microphone.

     The room has been transformed into an ad hoc broadcasting studio
     for this all-important occasion.
  TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    109.


The BBC News Reader and Floor Manager are there, along with a
small cluster of technicians putting finishing touches to their
equipment.FLOOR MANAGERThink he'll manage?BBC NEWS READERI've heard he may not even show.

The Floor Manager tries to warn him with his eyes.

Bertie has entered with Elizabeth and Logue. The Reader wishes
he could sink into the floor. Bertie says nothing, but
approaches the looming microphone, while Logue and Elizabeth
watch nervously.BERTIE`Walk up to the bloody thing boldly, stare
            it square in the eye, man to man.'BBC NEWS READER(placating)
            If you'll be so kind, to let me show you...BERTIEI already know. My father taught me.

He spreads the fingers of one hand, touches the apparatus with
the little finger, thumb to chin.

The Reader scurries off and tells the others.BBC NEWS READERHis father taught him. I taught his father.BERTIE(testing the microphone)
            Bugger bugger bugger...bloody bloody
            bloody...ELIZABETHBertie, do make sure that's not switched
            on!LIONELYou're going to be splendid. And
            if you're not?BERTIEThey'll bloody well have to listen to me
            anyway. Right?
  TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    110.LIONELBloody right.

Lang and Churchill have entered. Elizabeth forces herself to
greet them graciously.ELIZABETHMr. Prime Minister, Your Grace, how kind of
            you to join us.COSMO LANGWouldn't miss this for the world.
                (to Churchill)
            Congratulations. Neville didn't last long,
            did he? Talking to Hitler.WINSTON CHURCHILLMy tenure will be shorter, if the King
            fails tonight.

Bertie and Logue speak privately.BERTIENo matter how this turns out, I wish to
            thank you. For asking such dreadful
            questions. What can I do in recompense?LIONEL(lighty...yet seriously)
            I've always wanted to be knighted.BERTIESorry. That would raise too many questions.LIONEL(pause, then)
            Understood.

Bertie takes something from his pocket.BERTIEYour shilling. Told you I'd give it back.LIONELKeep it for good luck.BERTIENo, you won this, fair and square.

The object is a silver medal. Bertie pins it to Logue's jacket.
  TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                    111.BERTIE (CONT'D)Made from the melted coin. Designed it
            myself, hope you like it, Lionel old
            friend. May I call you that?LIONELMy greatest honour, Bertie.
                (then)
            One final question.BERTIEOh dear.LIONELDo you believe you're King?

A very long pause.BERTIEAlmost.

The red light on the microphone starts to blink.   Logue joins
the others.

The Reader is at a smaller microphone near the ad hoc `broadcast
booth. Five, four, three, two...BBC NEWS READERGood evening, this is the BBC National and
            World programme, broadcasting from
            Buckingham Palace. His Majesty, the King.

During this, Bertie's hands begin to shake, the pages of his
speech rattle like dry leaves, his throat muscles constrict, the
Adam's apple bulges, his lips tighten...all the old symptoms
reappear.

Several seconds have elapsed since the Reader finished.   It
seems an eternity.

Elizabeth grasps the sides of her chair with white knuckles.

Lang's eyes roll heavenward.

Churchill studies the situation, ready to leap into the breach.

Bertie and Logue stare at each other.

Logue smiles, perfectly calm, totally confident in the man he's
worked with. His confidence is contagious.

Bertie takes a deep breath and lets it out slowly. His hands
grow steady, his throat muscles relax...all the things he's
practiced.
       TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     112.88   INT.   LOGUE'S PARLOUR - NIGHT                                 88The luminous dial of a wireless.   Unbearable silence. Then:BERTIE (V.O. RADIO FILTER)In this grave hour, perhaps the most
                  fateful in our history, I send to every
                  household of my peoples, both at home and
                  overseas...

     This is being listened to by Myrtle and the boys. The boys look
     at their mum. Suddenly they explode with cheers as the radio
     address continues:89   INT./EXT. MONTAGE OF VARIOUS LOCATIONS IN ENGLAND AND AROUND 89THEWORLD - NIGHT OR DAY, DEPENDING ON LOCATIONIn homes, pubs (where we see the man with the rosacea nose),
     clubs, hotels, boarding houses, factories, mines, prisons, a
     shearing shed in New Zealand, cattle station in Australia, sites
     in India, South Africa, loci around the Commonwealth and Empire.
     China. Japan. The Kremlin. The White House. Hitler's mountain
     top wolf den. The South of France (where David and Wallis listen
     dolefully.)

     During this, the address continues, with dramatic pauses to be
     sure, but no real hesitations.BERTIE (V.O. ON RADIO)...this message spoken with the same depth
                  of feeling for each one of you as if I were
                  able to cross your threshold and speak to
                  you myself. For the second time in the
                  lives of most of us we are at war. For we
                  are called, with our allies, to meet the
                  challenge of a principle which, if it were
                  to prevail, would be fatal to any civilized
                  order in the world. It is the principle
                  which permits a State, in the selfish
                  pursuit of power, to disregard its treaties
                  and its solemn pledges; which sanctions the
                  use of force, or threat of force, against
                  the sovereignty and independence of other
                  States. Such a principle, stripped of all
                  disguise, is surely the mere primitive
                  doctrine that might is right, and if this
                  principle were established throughout the
                  world, the freedom of our own country and
                  of the whole British Commonwealth of
                  Nations would be in danger.(MORE)TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                     113.BERTIE (V.O. ON RADIO) (CONT'D)But far more than this - the peoples of the
                  world would be kept in the bondage of fear,
                  and all hopes of settled peace and of the
                  security of justice and liberty among
                  nations would be ended. This is the
                  ultimate issue which confronts us.

     End the montage with a return to the exterior of Buckingham
     Palace. Outside, stand solemn crowds, listening to the speech
     on loudspeakers. PAN THEIR FACES, the faces of England,
     stalwart and resolved.BERTIE (CONT'D)For the sake of all that we ourselves hold
                  dear, and of the world's order and peace,
                  it is unthinkable that we should refuse to
                  meet the challenge. It is to this high
                  purpose that I now call my people at home
                  and my peoples across the seas, who will
                  make our cause their own. I ask them to
                  stand calm, firm, and united in this time
                  of trial. The task will be hard. There may
                  be dark days ahead, and war can no longer
                  be confined to the battlefield. But we can
                  only do the right as we see the right, and
                  reverently commit our cause to God.90   INT.   THE PRINCESSES PLAYROOM - NIGHT                        90The two girls listen to their father on the radio.BERTIE (V.O. ON RADIO)If one and all we keep resolutely faithful
                  to it, ready for whatever service or
                  sacrifice it may demand, then, with God's
                  help, we shall prevail.

     Lilibet's expression tells it all - she can hear it, her father
     is truly King.91   INT. KING'S STUDY/BROADCAST ROOM, BUCKINGHAM PALACE -         91CONTINUOUSBertie, in his quiet way is totally in command, and utterly
     magnificent. Everyone in the room is awed as he concludes:
  TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   114.BERTIE (CONT'D)We may all find a message of encouragement
            in the lines which, in my closing words, I
            would like to say to you: `I said to the
            man who stood at the Gate of the Year,
            "Give me a light that I may tread safely
            into the unknown." And he replied, "Go out
            into the darkness, and put your hand into
            the Hand of God. That shall be to you
            better than light, and safer than a known
            way.'" May the Almighty Hand guide and
            uphold us all.

IN THE AD HOC `CONTROL BOOTH' AREA - the Manager makes a `cut'
gesture to Bertie, he's off the air, the red light on the
microphone goes out. The Manager points, and the red light on
the Reader's microphone goes on.BBC NEWS READERThis concludes the BBC broadcast of the
            King's Speech.

Another `cut' gesture from the Floor Manager, the red light goes
out and the transmission is concluded. The Floor Manager looks
to the Reader.BBC NEWS READER (CONT'D)(softly)
            He wasn't perfect.
                (barely controlling his
                 tears)
            Not perfect... But by God... He moved me.

AT THE MAIN BBC MICROPHONE - Bertie waits for the verdict of his
peers. Churchill first:WINSTON CHURCHILLCouldn't have said it better myself.

The ultimate compliment.   Lang next.COSMO LANGI'm speechless.ELIZABETH(softly)
            Thank God.

She goes to Bertie and kisses him tenderly on the cheek, takes
his hand, then Logue's.
  TKS/Seidler/09/17/08                                   115.ELIZABETH (CONT'D)Well done, Bertie. Well done...
                (for the first time)
            ...Lionel. Well done.

She leaves the two men together.LIONELI always called you Bertie. Today, I call
            you King.

He offers his hand. But instead of taking it, Bertie takes him
by the shoulders and gives him a hug. This is a long way from
the five pace rule. The last barrier has fallen.

Scroll:CARD 1 - KING GEORGE VI RALLIED HIS NATION DURING WWII, UNITINGTHE COMMONWEALTH, REFUSING TO LEAVE LONDON DURING THE BLITZ. HEDIED ON FEBRUARY 6TH 1952. HE WAS KNOWN AS 'THE GOOD KING'.CARD 2 - LIONEL LOGUE PASSED AWAY SHORTLY AFTER HIS FRIENDBERTIE. HIS STORY REMAINS UNKNOWN. EVEN IN AUSTRALIA.THE END